    Title: m4d H4X
    Date:2010-02-22T18:55:00
    Tags: pablolife

For two years I was a UTA for our department's [Introduction to Security][1]
course,  and my current roommate is the current Head TA. So when a friend was
looking for someone to perform a security audit on his web application, he
called my roommate, who called me in as his surgeon's assistant. Here's what
we found:

### Dictionary Attack

Anytime you have a problem in computing, there's always a 'dumb way to do it,'
which normally involves checking every possibility. Remember being a kid and
asking someone to guess your birthday? The first thing they ask is 'What month
is it in?' Suppose you say 'August.'

A dictionary attack is the kid who closes his eyes and says "August 1st August
2nd August 3rd August 4th August 5th..." (and ruins the game).

The idea is this: if you want to guess someone's password, try every value it
could be. You do this by trying to log in as them with every password, and you
stop when one of them works.

Sounds dumb? It is, but **never underestimate a fast, dumb computer**. After
all, it [worked against Twitter.][2]

The attack is called a Dictionary attack because the idea is that you try
someone's e-mail address with every word in the dictionary. A simple
dictionary (one I used for this) consists of [the 500 most common
passwords][3], [a couple hundred first names][4], and [an actual
dictionary][5] (the puzzle links to a text file). Since most people use real
words as their passwords, there's a good chance you'll stumble upon the
correct one.

To stop this, you have a few options:

* **Create a delay after some failed attempts, and report the behavior to an
admin.** So if someone messes up their password 3 times, make them wait 15
minutes. Another 3, make them wait an hour, etc. This slows down your
opponent, and makes you aware of suspicious activity.

* **Demand strong passwords.** We all get annoyed having to mix numbers and
letters (one of the most common passwords is 'password1', the most common is
'123456'), but it helps your security, since you won't find 'h4ll0MRP3ANut' in
a dictionary.

* **Keep track of your requests, and stop trolls.** This is a similar tactic
to a [DoS][6], but keep track of where people are logging in from. If you have
100 failed logins in 1 minute from IP Address 113.154.2.110, stop letting them
try to connect (again, at least for a day or two).

### File Upload

Most web applications let you upload files to share, or view online. There was
once an artist who bound his book with sandpaper so that shelving and re-
shelving it would destroy the books next to it. That bookshelf is your
application, and that book is the other exploit we found.

The site in question had a file upload feature, so we uploaded an executable
file that would run whatever command we fed it on the computer where it
resided (in this case, the company server). As soon as we 'viewed' the
document, it would execute. So a command like

```bash
    find ../../ -name "config.rb" -exec grep password '{}' \;
```

Will find a configuration file, and find all the passwords in it (most web
frameworks have contain a file).

The fix to this one is simple: don't let users upload any type of file your
server might execute (unless, of course, you're a code hosting site, in which
case you don't need to be told about this).

-

Security isn't the way movies make it out to be: most hacks aren't
mathematical or cryptographic breaks, and they're never as dramatic. [The
brilliance in the best ones is that they're so simple][7]. Most security holes
are little leaks in the way software gets written, or more usually (like weak
passwords) flaws in predictable human behavior.


   [1]: http://cs.brown.edu/courses/cs166/

   [2]: http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2009/01/professed-twitt/

   [3]: http://boingboing.net/2009/01/02/top-500-worst-passwo.html

   [4]: http://babynames.com/Names/Popular/

   [5]: http://www.facebook.com/careers/puzzles.php#!/careers/puzzles.php?puzzle_id=17

   [6]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denial-of-service_attack

   [7]: http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2008/07/world_war_ii_de.html
