    Title: Repost:  Professor Layton and the Hell Yes
    Date:2010-09-26T21:14:00
    Tags: pablolife

My last blog before this got digitally bulldozed:  I was hosting on a
pay-per-webserver and when I got a new credit card forgetting to update the
account, they sent one spam-collected warning before they deleted my site.
Luckily I was able to salvage most of the posts via Google Cache, with the
hope that I could write a script to de-WordPress-HTMLize them, and upload again
so they could see another day. I haven't done it yet, but might still. The main
reason I haven't is because a) those posts had lots of images I hosted on the
server as well, which makes them uglier, and b) **those posts are like these, but
much more boring.**


<!-- more -->

But I might re-post one or two every here and there. Here's a re-post from
September 4, 2009, when I was playing Professor Layton and the Diabolical Box.
I just got the sequel, Professor Layton and the Unwound Future ([official
site][1], [trailer][2]), and most of my sentiments are still the same:

-

[![][3]][4]

Anybody following my tweets for the past 4-5 days knows I've only really
tweeted about one thing: [Professor Layton and the Diabolical Box.][5]


This is a breath of fresh air. Not even: I've written before about growing up
during the Hollywoodization of the games industry, and in that context games
like this are a fresh salad in a strip mall full of Krispy Kreme's. This game
is a bargain for twice the price.


It would take a much-better planned post to cogently and coherently explain
this game's genius, but to take a line from the movie _Spy Game_, I'll try to
achieve "twice the sex with half the foreplay":


* The game's puzzle mechanic is _innovative and damn fun_. While scores upon
scores of mini-games and puzzles in the larger game isn't new (Nintendo owned
and made a fortune off this mechanic previously with Brain Age, Mario Party,
etc.) Layton's puzzles operate in a radically different context. Most games
have puzzles that are competitive and/or timed, with their primary mechanic
some physical or reactionary task and how rapidly you can achieve it (mash
buttons! Simon says!).

  The context of these puzzles change everything. The puzzles are non-
competitive. You have unlimited time. They are cognitively fun, stimulating
puzzles.

  I feel that Parappa the Rapper sort of emerged in this way, in that timed
button presses weren't themselves new ([TASVideos][6] demonstrates that
completing most games could be thought of as a sequence of timed button
presses, but Excitebike is a better example of a game with it as a central
mechanic), but the context and presentation made it feel new.


* This game is _beautiful_. Also like Parappa, the game launders its play
style though gorgeous original artwork and design. Who can't love Professor
Layton, with his quaint accent, speech, and manners? Who can't love Don Paolo,
the _eeeeevil_ scientist who is such a cartoon villain? Who can't love the
soundtrack, the villagers?

* It's always great to have _a touch interface that doesn't suck_. Have you
ever tried designing a touch-screen interface? Or used one? Most of its
proponents swear touch interfaces are more "natural," but most touch software
sucks. This game feels great, however, so much so that my brother's girlfriend
could feel inclined to pick it up and log 15 hours of game time in 4-5 days.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/eHWttaixDEc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If you have a DS, get these games. If you don't, ask to borrow mine ^\_^


   [1]: http://professorlaytonds.com/
   [2]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ks__4i9qPZM
   [3]: http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TKAcn9qj6OI/AAAAAAAAAHA/bwqCD4AabpY/s320/professor-layton-diabolical-box.png
   [4]: http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TKAcn9qj6OI/AAAAAAAAAHA/bwqCD4AabpY/s1600/professor-layton-diabolical-box.png
   [5]: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/laytonkyoujutoakumanohako/index.html/
   [6]: http://tasvideos.org/
