    Title: Type Systems, From 1000 feet high
    Date:2010-06-23T22:27:00
    Tags: pablolife

I posted a link to one of my favorite articles ever on Facebook that is now gone.
Here's the [reddit link](1); the article was about what you should know
before you debate type systems, since most people have fuzzy notions of what
type systems are, what they do, and their properties. He said it best, but now
that it's gone, I'll go over a few points that I remember the author
addressed.

(**edit:** [Reddit provides][2] a Wayback Machine link, so you can [read the
original!][3]).

<!-- more -->

First off, **what is a type system, really?** This is a bit hard to answer,
but the a simple way to describe it is as _a mechanism to prevent your code
from executing nonsense by investigating what operations you are performing to
what data_. An example of this would be if you had "2 + potatoes" in your
code: a type system would see that you cannot add a number and the symbol
"potatoes" (nonsense!) and prevent you from doing so.

Note that we've already encountered a subtle distinction that is the source of
confusion: when does this happen? There are two major forms of type systems:
_static_ types and _dynamic_ types. A static type system will investigate your
code _before_ you run it, reporting any errors it sees, whereas a dynamic type
system will tell you of errors during runtime.

When most people talk about a type system, they almost always mean static
types. _This does not mean that dynamically typed languages don't have type
systems._ Far from it. Compare this 'untyped' Ruby code:

```ruby
    my_array = [1,2,3]
    0.upto(100){ |i| puts (my_array[i] + 1).to_s }
```

with the 'typed' C code:

```c
    unsigned array[3];
    array[0] = 1;
    array[1] = 2;
    array[2] = 3;
    unsigned i;
    for(i = 0; i < 100; ++i) {
        printf("%d\n", array[i] + "Stack Pointer!");
    }
```


The output of the Ruby:

    2
    3
    4
    types.rb:2:in `block in ': undefined method `+' for nil:NilClass
    (NoMethodError)
        from types.rb:2:in `upto'
        from types.rb:2:in `'

And the C:

    3915
    3916
    3917
    3917
    1606417842
    ... (continues for 100 lines) ...

We see that Ruby stops and C will plow right through! (To be fair, the C
compiler will warn you of the type mismatch). Ruby's type error shows that,
while dynamic, Ruby _does_ have a type system, and shouldn't be called
untyped. And while C has something people call a type system, it doesn't
really function as one might expect.

Which brings up the next point: **What should a type system do?**. There are
two major properties that a type system should strive to provide
(incidentally, C/C++/Java don't provide these):

* **Progress:** A well-typed expression can be evaluated further, unless the
computation is finished. In short, if the expression is well typed, the rules
of evaluation and type system guarantee "there's something we can do with it"
(this excludes exceptions: "1/0" is well-typed, but we can't detect this
beforehand without solving the Halting Problem).

* **Preservation:** Evaluation of a well-typed expression leads to another
well-typed expression.

Type systems that provide these properties mean that if your program passes
the type checker, _it can't "go wrong."_, by that we mean, "the computer will
always know what do to (progress), and never lead you into a false corner
(preservation)." This doesn't mean your program will be bug-free, just that
any bugs are logical bugs, or unhandled exceptions (basically, your own
fault).

Languages with great type systems (SML, OCaml, Haskell) have _proven_ these
properties about their type systems, and it makes programming in those
languages a joy.

My favorite part of the article, however, was the Fallacies section. Things
people believe which just aren't true. I covered the one of the biggest ones
already with the example ("dynamic typing means untyped!"), but here are two
others that really get my goat:

* **Typed code is longer, more verbose.** This, again, is untrue. Most
people saying this are referring more to _type annotations_, which is text you
write in your program to tell the compiler what the type of everything is.
You'll find these in C, C++, Java, and C#; I once had a _really_ ugly line of
Java that looked something like:

```java
    HashMap<String, ArrayList<Integer>> scoreMap = new HashMap<String, ArrayList<Integer>>();
```

(I've [ranted about][4] Java's verbosity before). You won't find lines like
that (or at least they're not mandatory) in SML, Haskell, or Scala. Using
technology from 70's, we can [infer types][5] from the context of the code. So
those ranting about statically typed code being verbose should really rant
against type annotations, which are distinct.

* **Strong typing vs. Weak typing.** THESE TERMS MEAN NOTHING. At least,
nobody's agreed upon what they should mean. [Even Wikipedia agrees with
me.][6] So stop saying it, and say what you mean; it's like saying a food is
'flavorful.'

It's a pity the original link is gone, he said a lot more than I did, and a
lot more clearly. Still, type systems are fun, and go a **lot** deeper than
this. If you're looking for a good introduction to programming with types,
[The Little MLer][7] is hard to beat. For the theory, people seem to love
[Pierce][8]. I'm not too far into it, but it looks promising.


   [1]: http://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/21klm/what_to_know_before_debating_type_systems
   [2]: http://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/cqfam/sadly_the_original_site_is_gone_but_heres_the/
   [3]: http://web.archive.org/web/20080822101209/http://www.pphsg.org/cdsmith/types.html
   [4]: http://www.morepaul.com/2010/05/paul-is-bothered.html
   [5]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Type_inference
   [6]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strongly-typed_programming_language
   [7]: http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/matthias/BTML/
   [8]: http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/tapl/
