    Title: Living Openly
    Date:2010-09-16T00:13:00
    Tags: pablolife

I just wrote a long blog post talking about why it sucks playing Zerg in
Starcraft 2.  But friends, there has been too much whining on this blog of
late! It's time to bring back two things we've missed for some time: computers
and whimsy!


![Haters Gonna Hate][1]


So a few things: I'm living the dream, and finally installed Linux on a
personal box. It's a small step (this is my laptop, not my main) but Perfect
is the Enemy of the Good, and after using Mac, Windows, and Linux at work,
it's incredibly obvious which direction I'd like to move in for the future.


Currently I'm running [Ubuntu][2]. I wanted to run Debian like we did at Brown
CS, but I'm too much of a weenie at the moment. Besides, Ubuntu's easy as a
dream to set up, and I've done it for work twice already. Naturally, I'll be
using [XMonad][3] as my window manager ^_^


I've written twice that I've "picked up" [ScrabbleCheat][4] again, but they
were lies. _This_ time I've actually picked it up again (see the commit
history!) and it's finally going in the right direction. I had a substantial
amount in the first tagged release, but that approach (the anagram solver) was
ultimately doomed because it didn't take the board into account when
generating words for moves. If I ever get productive again, I'll write about
this process, this has been the most fun I've had coding in a while.


Part of the fun has been because of Erlang, which has [just had another
release][5]. There are so many reasons to use Erlang, and this application
contains almost none of them (not super parallelizable, no need for hot-
swapping patches, binary syntax, or fault-tolerance). That being said, I
really miss my functional programming, and refactoring calls to a series of
folds and maps just feels _nice_. I can't imagine how powerful I'd feel if I'd
properly learned macros, or had use of Haskell's type system. Those are for
the next ones ^_^


Finally, [Diaspora open sourced today][6]. It's too early to really tell
anything about its future, but I'm thinking of looking at it and seeing what
they did. If we're lucky, the community will take well to this I can finally
stop being [a dumb fuck][7] who trusts Zuckerberg.


(Note that while I don't love all aspects of the product, my family will
always be eternally grateful to Facebook for helping us communicate to so
many, so easily during the roughest parts of [Annalisa's recovery][8]. I also
think their approach to engineering, like many of the coders I know there, is
brilliant).


Finally, I'm turning in my iPhone in late October and getting me an Android
(probably an Evo), since I'll be paying that bill pretty soon and will use the
opportunity to go to a more open land, containing the closed platform I work
on ^_^.


So that's it, kids! Open source OS, programming an open-source hippie
language, slowly migrating out of Facebook while decking it out with a new,
more open phone. All that will be left will be a bed that's also a
[Reprap][9].


[![Since Day 1][10]][11]


I'll try to post more; I still sleep next to too much cardboard and styrofoam,
and will probably be comfortably moved in and adjusted after Christmas ^_-.


   [1]: http://30.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_kyby7pa0J81qzxzwwo1_500.gif

   [2]: http://www.ubuntu.com

   [3]: http://xmonad.org/

   [4]: http://www.github.com/paul-meier/ScrabbleCheat

   [5]: http://www.erlang.org/download/otp_src_R14B.readme

   [6]: http://techcrunch.com/2010/09/15/diaspora-revealed/

   [7]: http://gawker.com/5636765/facebook-ceo-admits-to-calling-users-dumb-fucks

   [8]: http://www.facebook.com/#!/group.php?gid=25800962459&ref=ts

   [9]: http://reprap.org/wiki/Main_Page

   [10]: http://image.blingee.com/images18/content/output/000/000/000/6f4/674214569_1402332.gif

   [11]: http://blingee.com/blingee/view/116669782-Since-Day-1 (Since Day 1)

