    Title: I read the news
    Date:2010-04-30T15:35:00
    Tags: pablolife

If you aren't head-explodingly outraged with the Catholic church, you aren't
paying enough attention (or, alternatively, you're incapable of independent
thought).

With that in mind, this video tickled me (language NSFW).

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/fHRDfut2Vx0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Unsurprisingly, I agree with the Hitchens/Dawkins [initiative to have the Pope
brought to court][1].

**Edit:** I realize this was an inflammatory post, especially since I don't
provide any links to what's going on, or the conversation in place. Here are a
few articles that guided my understanding:

* Andrew Sullivan in invaluable in this discussion, as a compassionate
Catholic who isn't afraid of following the truth where it lies. He's written
[a great article for][2] The Times that lays it all out pretty well.

* Sullivan [continues][3] with more damning (literally, I hope) _facts_. The
Vatican's response so far has been along the lines of calling this '[petty
gossip][4],' seemingly unaware that the documented rape of hundreds children
(and documented ignoring of calls for help) does not constitute gossip. It is
fact, and there is a difference.

* How have Church representatives responded? By [blaming the Jews][5],
[blaming the gays][6], and when that didn't work, blaming [those slutty
children][7] who were _totally_ asking for it.

* This has raised the question, can the Pope be fired? As in, suppose
tomorrow we find out he also burned orphanages, uses performance-enhancing
drugs, was in Arizona illegally, and was actually not even Catholic. Could the
Vatican defrock him? Turns out, [they can't.][8] Surprisingly, the Catholic
hierarchy has no real systems for accountability.

* Some bishops [do step down][9], however. The timing suggests they're not
so sorry that they did it as they are that they got caught.

* Christopher Hitchins was on Bill Maher's show, and while both are
polarizing atheists who don't generally resonate well with believers (they're
pretty inflammatory), this video lays it out pretty simply: would you accept a
child molester (or someone who aided one) in your company? In your country?
Then why is this any different?



* The Onion, a satirical publication, wins with the best headline though:
[Pope Vows to get Church Pedophilia Down to Acceptable Levels][10]. The funny
thing is, _he hasn't even done this_.

* In a major breakthrough, however, [the Vatican _may_ apologize][11] in
some way shape or form in June. Again, I have a feeling this is only happening
because we're making such a big stink about it, since the abuse has happened
over the last century (at least) and nobody from their end has said a peep
about it, other than blaming.

The Vatican, like Phil Donahue and most other shills, have demonstrated
themselves to be incapable of owning up to this, and have only shown their
incompetence by blaming others. The best defense of the Catholic Church [came
just this morning][12], by Nick Kristof of the New York Times.

He basically says "don't mock so hard or cruelly, because these idiots in the
Vatican aren't the entire Catholic church; many priests and nuns on the ground
give their lives selflessly in the true spirit of the organization, and the
mockery/criticism belittles their unmatched generosity."

[Dan Savage addresses this][13], and I more or less agree. Standard
accountability models are necessary, but mockery (especially honest and well-
produced mockery, as in the video at the top of the post) will accelerate the
response from the Church while they continue to earn it. Until that response
comes, the good, "real" representatives of the Catholic faith will not be
represented by the organization they deserve to be, and the churchgoers will
suffer as they always have.

Until then, regarding Ratzinger, _fuck the motherfucker_.

**Edit 2 (5/3/2010):** [More from Andrew Sullivan][14], reflecting on the [NYT
summary][15] published yesterday. I also left out the reporting on Marcial
Maciel, the [Legion of Christ][16], and other establishment blights that
further illustrate how horrible the whole situation is ([Sullivan][17],
[National Catholic Reporter][18]).

**Edit 3 (5/11/2010):** Ratzinger [finally says something more
substantive.][19] This doesn't put him off the hook for the scandals he's been
a part of, and I'm still waiting for him to _do_ something. Took long enough,
but it's better than blaming outsiders or the victims.


   [1]: http://www.newsweek.com/id/236934
   [2]: http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/andrew_sullivan/article7086620.ece
   [3]: http://andrewsullivan.theatlantic.com/the_daily_dish/2010/04/the-third-strike.html
   [4]: http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/mar/28/pope-benedict-sexual-abuse-scandal
   [5]: http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/faith/article7095471.ece
   [6]: http://www.christiantelegraph.com/issue9444.html
   [7]: http://joemygod.blogspot.com/2010/04/quote-of-day-bernando-alvarez.html
   [8]: http://www.slate.com/id/2247262/
   [9]: http://www.nytimes.com/2010/04/24/world/europe/24vatican.html?hpw
   [10]: http://www.theonion.com/articles/pope-vows-to-get-church-pedophilia-down-to-accepta,17201/
   [11]: http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/36823196/ns/world_news-europe/
   [12]: http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/02/opinion/02kristof.html?ref=opinion
   [13]: http://slog.thestranger.com/slog/archives/2010/05/02/mockery-has-its-role-to-play-nick
   [14]: http://andrewsullivan.theatlantic.com/the_daily_dish/2010/05/it-isnt-prudent.html
   [15]: http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/03/world/europe/03maciel.html?hp=&pagewanted=all
   [16]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legion_of_Christ
   [17]: http://andrewsullivan.theatlantic.com/the_daily_dish/2010/04/the-vaticans-watergate-follow-the-money.html
   [18]: http://ncronline.org/news/accountability/money-paved-way-maciels-influence-vatican
   [19]: http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2010/05/11/pope-sex-abuse-scandal-bo_n_571314.html
