    Title: On Freedom of Speech
    Date:2010-07-08T09:47:00
    Tags: pablolife

Back in DC, my family is hosting an international student for a few days as
part of a summer program, and she had a wonderful conversation with us
regarding her faith and country. She's a Muslim, and her progressiveness,
eloquence, and intelligence really gives a jaded, disillusioned person like
myself hope for the future.

That being said, she brought up [Everyone Draw Mohammed Day][1], clearly
unhappy with it, and attributing it to Muslim hatred, as this came up in the
context of post-9/11 hatred in the United States.

I attribute her reaction mostly to the press in her country, which was
inaccurate and unfavorable (her description of it had factual errors, and she
didn't really address the cause). It wasn't the time or place for me to defend
it in person. But as [a participant][2], allow me to go into detail.

First, watch this 1:25 video of Phillip Pullman, author of _His Dark
Materials_, discussing the offense caused by the title of his new book _The
Good Man Jesus and the Scoundrel Christ_:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/HQ3VcbAfd4w" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> Yes, it was a shocking thing to say, and I knew it was a shocking thing to
> say. But no one has the right to live without being shocked. No one has the
> right to spend their life without being offended. Nobody _has_ to read this
> book. Nobody has to pick it up. Nobody has to open it.

And if they open it and read it, they don't have to like it. And if you read
it and dislike it you don't have to remain silent about it; you can write to
me, you can complain about it, you can write to the publisher, you can write
to the papers, you can write your own book.

You can do all those things, but there your rights stop. No one has the right
to stop me writing this book, no one has the right to stop it being published,
or sold, or bought, or read. And that's all I have to say on that subject.

I participated to condemn acts of violence upon those who were exercising
their rights to free speech. Again, if you don't like what I produce, you can
_choose_ not to consume it, and you can choose to argue with me about it, you
can post rebuttals, and we can have a free exchange of ideas.

Victims of violence get no such choice. [This professor of Mayalayam][3], a
language of India, did not _choose_ [to have his hand cut off][4] when in a
simple language exam ("find the grammar errors in this passage") [he used the
name Mohammed for a character][5].

[Theo van Gogh][6] did not choose to get killed. [Lars Vilks][7] didn't choose
to get attacked.

To any who say or believe these victims "chose their fates by their actions":
you are agreeing with murderers and barbarians on the tactics used, and wish
to stifle free speech. It is comparable to blaming rape victims for their
rapes. That is not an opinion, it is a fact. **In what twisted world is the
appropriate punishment for saying something, drawing something, or singing
something _death and/or mutilation_?** No, these victims didn't choose this in
the way someone _offended_ by the content of a blog can just choose not to
look at it. If the appropriate response to a question or an idea is
aggression, than your ideas are weak, you have the mind of an 8-year old, and
you live in the 12th century.

On a larger point, **no topic of discussion should be off the table because
some arbitrary group of people doesn't want it discussed.** By this (lack of)
logic, suppose I have billions of followers and I _demand_ and _order the
killing of_ anybody who uses the letter "v". Suppose you used "v". Better,
suppose I just thought you used "v," when you feel like you didn't. Would you
_actually_ deserve death?

While the arbitrary selection of a letter in the alphabet is ridiculous to
almost everyone, to a large number of people in the world like myself it's
just as ridiculous as depictions of a man who lived over a thousand years ago.

To be clear, our student _does not agree_ with any of the violence propagated
by murderers, barbarians, and extremists, and is as quick to condemn them as I
am. But she (like many progressive, modern Muslims) was still angered by
Everyone Draw Mohammed Day.

To her, and the rest: **take back your religion.** It's easy to pass the buck
by calling the perpetrators "not real Muslims," and mentioning that Islam is
primarily about Peace and Tolerance, etc., but it is cold comfort to those of
us who feel threatened (not _offended_, mind you, which we can deal with) by
people justifying their actions by citing [hadith][8] and the Koran. As long
as a bunch of idiots are going to threaten me and my peers in the name of your
religion, I and others will do what we can to point out the absurdity. Please,
**fight _them_, don't fight _me_.**

My choice to participate was not because "I hate Muslims," it was because "I
hate those people calling themselves Muslims who are threatening me for
exercising free speech."

Also, remember I'm an equal-opportunity blasphemer. See [this post][9] on
Christianity in the news, with this favorite video of mine (language NSFW):

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/fHRDfut2Vx0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I'll close with a buddy, Bill Maher, who states it simply: **Freedom of Speech
is non-negotiable.** This isn't uniquely Muslim hatred; if it were Buddhists
we'd be pissing off Buddhists, if it was McDonalds we'd be protesting
McDonalds.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/HmpM-b-IsYY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

(Also, for those who missed it, [Boobquake!][10]).


   [1]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Everybody_Draw_Mohammed_Day
   [2]: http://www.morepaul.com/2010/05/everyone-draw-mohammed.html
   [3]: http://www.newmancollege.ac.in/faculty.htm
   [4]: http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Alleging-blasphemy-fanatics-hack-lecturers-hand/articleshow/6129146.cms
   [5]: http://www.asianews.it/news-en/Kerala,-hand-severed-of-Christian-Professor-accused-of-blasphemy-18843.html
   [6]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theo_van_Gogh_(film_director)
   [7]: http://www.aolnews.com/world/article/muhammad-cartoonist-lars-vilks-attacked-during-college-lecture/19473427
   [8]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hadith
   [9]: http://www.morepaul.com/2010/04/i-read-news.html
   [10]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boobquake
