    Title: TeX, Culture.
    Date:2010-03-07T18:42:00
    Tags: pablolife

On the old (lost) blog I had a long post as to why I used LaTeX instead of Word,
even for non- mathematical documents. I'll surely re-post it sometime (I
have the source somewhere...), but in the meantime, [this little
comparison][1] beautifully demonstrates the aesthetic advantages. It also
links to [this essay][2], which very articulately describes many of the other
advantages.

---

On [Hacker News][3] someone linked to a very non-hacker article, namely, an
author of the gaming site Kotaku [is very displeased][4] with many things
Japan. It's a moderately epic rant, I only made it until about halfway down
before I had to be somewhere else.

It's interesting in the way I find very crying babies interesting\*.

<img src="http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/S5RpMMlLTJI/AAAAAAAAACQ/_Zk_Dz3TxhI/s320/crying-baby.jpg" alt="A crying baby." />

\* = Crying babies, to me, are hilarious and very interesting. It's a display
of emotion we 'grow out of' (read: learn to hide) and almost never see again.
Do you see how _hard_ babies cry? Heave in their chests, deliberately take in
as much air as they can for the express purpose of _yelling louder?_ And then
they do it again! You never see grown-ups do anything like it.

I think the poor guy needs a) to come home for a few months (depressurize),
and b) stay there for at least a few years, since he seems so far gone in his
bitterness to give it a fair shake again. Many of his gripes arise from social
issues regarding his differences (vegetarianism, his unfortunate allergy to
alcohol), particularly in a professional social setting.

Bad news though: that's true most everywhere. In many corporate dinners in
_this_ country, being a vegetarian gets you all sorts of weird looks (going to
a steakhouse and ordering a _salad_?). While his distinguishing features are
obviously more acceptable here (tautological, since he's writing from a US
perspective), I hesitate to believe our businesspeople are paragons of
tolerance (just think of all the ways to blow a professional interview. Most
have nothing to do with substance).

This isn't to say his article is completely baseless; I would likely agree
with the part on smoking. At the very least, parts of it are entertaining, the
segment on 'mistress bars' had me laughing out loud and got me wanting to get
into theatre again (this kind of human-interaction 'market failure' is what
makes life worth living).

But many of his points, namely the cultural artifacts (music, comedy) are so
bad they merit further discussion. First off, when is it _ever_ a good idea to
criticize how 'smart' popular media is, and derive cultural judgment on it?
Especially when you're from _here_?

{% youtube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3taEuL4EHAg %}

Complaining about comedy being all about 'catch phrases' ignores too many lame
catchphrases that got too trendy here. I've heard "I'm Rick James, bitch!" way
too many times to ever find it funny.

Speaking more broadly, _other cultures find other things funny_ (this is the
basis of the [Bumblebee Man][7] character on _The Simpsons_). This shouldn't
be surprising, since (by definition) other cultures live differently than you
do. So complaining that a stand-up comic doesn't want to joke about
masturbation (like they do here) tells us more about you (expecting to find
things funny to _you, somewhere else_) than it does strengthen your argument.

Add this to the contradictions ("the stereotyping" is a gripe of his, after
saying he hates people fitting an "everybody's uncle" stereotype, among
others) and punitive tone (he digs a lot on an ex-girlfriend he had there)
make this another [Rick Santelli rant][8]: entertaining, angry, and wrong.
Like the Santelli rant, you only hope (but know otherwise) that people are
smart enough to not believe it.

(usual disclaimer: I'm not arguing for moral relativism, or universal
acceptance of all cultures. There are many legitimate issues that can and
should be soberly addressed. The Kotaku author makes very few of them, and
makes them poorly.)

**Edit:** The comments refer to the last five paragraphs ("Can Videogames Make
Us Better People?") as the "real" article. I would recommend reading it. My
commentary is the same: the rules he complains about exist here too, you just
don't see them as starkly since you're from here.


   [1]: http://nitens.org/taraborelli/latex
   [2]: http://ricardo.ecn.wfu.edu/%7Ecottrell/wp.html
   [3]: http://news.ycombinator.com
   [4]: http://kotaku.com/5484581/japan-its-not-funny-anymore?skyline=true&s=i
   [5]: http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/S5RpMMlLTJI/AAAAAAAAACQ/_Zk_Dz3TxhI/s320/crying-baby.jpg
   [6]: http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/S5RpMMlLTJI/AAAAAAAAACQ/_Zk_Dz3TxhI/s1600-h/crying-baby.jpg
   [7]: http://simpsons.wikia.com/wiki/Bumblebee_Man
   [8]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bEZB4taSEoA
