    Title: Back from Istanbul!
    Date:2010-10-24T20:18:00
    Tags: pablolife

I'm a week back from my marvelous trip, photos over at [Madly Brilliant's
blog][1] and [a Facebook album][2].

I can only say it was a magnificent, magnificent week. I might even say
[transplendent][3]! Istanbul is one of the most beautiful cities I've ever
been to, and Turkish people were (as many people are) kind, warm, and happy
people.

Sometimes I imagine/fantasize doing what my mother did, which is to go to
another country where you don't speak the language and really make a life for
yourself there. If I had to do it anywhere, Istanbul would be a great
candidate. While you have the beautiful old city, you also have a thriving,
modern hub rich with activity and the city life that I love so much.

[![][4]][5]

So why aren't I thinking of ways to make my life there now? There are a few
sore points with my Turkish experience:

* It's [illegal to criticize Ataturk][6] in Turkey. Not that I know enough
about him to criticize him at all (hell, it's because of him Turkey is the
success story that it is, in terms of secularism) but I still find this law
egregious. We all know I'm [pretty][7] [anal][8] about freedom of speech
though.

* [Youtube is banned throughout the country][9] after trolls made fun of
Ataturk. Really? Yeah, that'll show'em! The funny thing is there are crappy
proxy sites people use, and the prime minister himself said something along
the lines of "the supreme court made a dick decision, so use the sites. I know
it's illegal, but you should use them anyways."

* [Turkey is the most dangerous place to surf the internet.][10] It hardly
affects me because I'm usually on Linux/Mac, and am a security buff. But
still, hardly a mark you want. Madly Brilliant found 2 viruses on her USB
drive after lending it to a Turkish Roommate. That's what happens when you
stick your stick in the wrong slot!

* Finally, its turn back to religion. While Istanbul and Izmir remain pretty
secular, populated almost exclusively by MINOs (Muslims in Name Only), this is
true of almost any country: the big cities are pretty secular. What also
matters is the leadership, and the general populace, both of which are
crossing into more religious territory. I avoid that when I can.


[![][11]][12]

Despite these little thorns (and most countries, ours included, have more and
more severe ones), I'm pretty much in love with that country ^\_^

The whole experience also made me think of my new adulthood. I'm working, and
loving it, but occasionally thinking to myself "So when's Winter Break?" Oh
yeah, _there isn't one. You get three weeks a year._

If my three weeks get to be like that one was, it's a bargain for twice the
price ^\_^


   [1]: http://istanbabble.blogspot.com

   [2]: http://www.facebook.com/#!/album.php?aid=2062768&id=1135710488

   [3]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X1granQNSqg#t=00m52s

   [4]: http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TMT-JFCAlxI/AAAAAAAAAHY/Jsj-AmclrYg/s400/69854_1452166540912_1135710488_31205117_5430153_n.jpg

   [5]: http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TMT-JFCAlxI/AAAAAAAAAHY/Jsj-AmclrYg/s1600/69854_1452166540912_1135710488_31205117_5430153_n.jpg

   [6]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mustafa_Kemal_Atat√ºrk#Turkey

   [7]: http://www.morepaul.com/2010/07/on-freedom-of-speech.html

   [8]: http://www.morepaul.com/2010/09/updates-to-previous-posts.html

   [9]: http://thelede.blogs.nytimes.com/2007/03/07/youtube-banned-in-turkey-after-insults-to-ataturk/

   [10]: http://www.businessandleadership.com/technology/item/25269-turkey-russia-most/

   [11]: http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TMT-JR3-RII/AAAAAAAAAHg/G8PW8ELOOYY/s400/73308_1452165700891_1135710488_31205109_6181048_n.jpg

   [12]: http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TMT-JR3-RII/AAAAAAAAAHg/G8PW8ELOOYY/s1600/73308_1452165700891_1135710488_31205109_6181048_n.jpg
