    Title: Link Aggregation - Paul Edition
    Date:2010-07-01T19:28:00
    Tags: pablolife

I don't get much feedback on the blog, but the little I get is usually 
something along the lines of _I would read it more, but you don't write 
about  don't write about anything **interesting**..._

What is usually meant by this is that the blog isn't very personal: I don't
write much about my feelings, my ups-and-downs, my relationships or my
struggles. Most of my writing is either esoteric (code, old video games, etc)
or at arms length from my actual life.

I try to make up for this by [introducing][1] [snippets of][2] [internet
culture][3] here, since only a few people I've ever met trawl the internet as
much and as eagerly as I do. On a typical day I view dozens of images and read
a bunch of articles, here's a small sampling of the fun and/or interesting
things I've seen today:

[![][4]][5]

**[Tea Party Jesus:][6]**The words of proselytizing, proud Christians coming
from Jesus himself. Nothing I've seen so humorously and clearly demonstrates
the disconnect between most Christians and the teachings of Jesus. Do you know
who said the one above? (answer at the bottom, click to enlarge)

[![][7]][8]

**[Catalog Living][9]** Wherein funny captions are giving to home catalog
pictures as if someone were living in them. The one above is "Elaine wasnâ€™t
about to let some hot flashes get in the way of balancing the checkbook with
the abacus.".

[![][10]][11]

**[Turtles Eating Things.][12]** Awesome.

I know very little about Twilight, but [this article on why Jacob has to
lose][13] was more interesting than it deserved to be (and highlights some of
Twilight's out-of-control traditionalist undertones).

[Reddit][14] is the source of so much fun and humor, images especially. [How
to troll your baby.][15] Apple awesomeness in [what I do in my lunch
hour][16]. An epic [clean joke thread][17].

Meanwhile, a NFSW paragraph: an equally epic [dirty joke thread.][18] A NSFW
["I wish I were Mario" image][19] that I really, really enjoyed. This YouTube
video, also on [Sullivan:][20]

{% youtube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PSEYXWmEse8 %}

There's more, but those were some of the cream from today. This doesn't
include coding articles, etc. Hopefully these posts containing lots of
internets keep this more entertaining ^_^

Jesus answer: Who else? Glenn Beck.


   [1]: http://www.morepaul.com/2010/06/terrible-wonderful-music-videos.html
   [2]: http://www.morepaul.com/2010/05/funny-images.html
   [3]: http://www.morepaul.com/2010/04/baal-bless-internet.html
   [4]: http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TC1RIM-riMI/AAAAAAAAAGQ/NWP0MS5s1v4/s320/tumblr_l4tthpOdKB1qbauyyo1_500.jpg
   [5]: http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TC1RIM-riMI/AAAAAAAAAGQ/NWP0MS5s1v4/s1600/tumblr_l4tthpOdKB1qbauyyo1_500.jpg
   [6]: http://teapartyjesus.tumblr.com
   [7]: http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TC1R4Gk55II/AAAAAAAAAGY/KjgIxfj3zIQ/s320/tumblr_l4mwveibsB1qbp9v2.jpg
   [8]: http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TC1R4Gk55II/AAAAAAAAAGY/KjgIxfj3zIQ/s1600/tumblr_l4mwveibsB1qbp9v2.jpg
   [9]: http://catalogliving.tumblr.com/
   [10]: http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TC1SUuDckCI/AAAAAAAAAGg/h73He4HYUYE/s320/capt80920d010ff54ab284c.jpg
   [11]: http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TC1SUuDckCI/AAAAAAAAAGg/h73He4HYUYE/s1600/capt80920d010ff54ab284c.jpg
   [12]: http://www.turtleseatingthings.com/
   [13]: http://io9.com/5576956/why-team-jacob-always-has-to-lose-in-twilight?skyline=true&s=i
   [14]: reddit.com
   [15]: http://i.imgur.com/9G5KS.jpg
   [16]: http://i.imgur.com/1JMIU.jpg
   [17]: http://www.reddit.com/r/funny/comments/ckwh4/
   [18]: http://www.reddit.com/r/funny/comments/ckyxi/reddit_i_think_its_about_time_we_had_another/
   [19]: http://i.imgur.com/9Bv62.jpg
   [20]: http://andrewsullivan.theatlantic.com
