    Title: Kill Null
    Date:2011-03-24T12:00:00
    Tags: pablolife, rants, engineering, essay

The other day, I
[tweeted][1]:

> "null is the [billion-dollar][2] design mistake. null breaks abstractions,
> composability. null eats live babies. null hammered my toe. null sucks."

<!-- more -->

And it had a lot to do with my frustrations in working with other people's code.
This blog sometimes tries to explain technical concepts to non-technical people,
so let me take a moment to explain to you what the hell `null` is if you're not
into programming, and why it's such a buzzkill.

We'll start with a metaphor: writing programs is very much like writing recipes,
and the computer is your team of chefs.  Recipes and code have a similar
structure with two major parts: you have a section for the stuff you're going to
use (in a program we call them **declarations**, in recipes it's the *list of
ingredients*), and you have a set of instructions telling you what to do with
said stuff (in both cooking and programming, these are your _**instructions**_).
The basic gist is that ingredients + instructions = delicious, delicious,
product.

This isn't a perfect metaphor, but it serves. Now, like recipes, oftentimes for
complicated products, you'll rely on other recipes; e.g. you'll need to make
guacamole for your burrito, or a complicated cake batter to eventually make a
wedding cake. As long as you follow ingredients + instructions, you will get
delicious products, and you can build recipes on top of recipes to make grander,
more delicious recipes without a problem. *This allows your recipes to be
composable: you can build them up from smaller ones.*  This is critical in
making anything of scale.

<img src="/img/2011/03/guacamole.jpg" style="margin: 15px auto; width: 538px;" alt="Delicious, fresh guacamole" />

There's a hidden step between ingredients and recipe, one that rarely gets
written down, because it's the one that sucks the most: *preparing the
ingredients*.  When your cooking time is advertised as 40 minutes but you have
to mince garlic, have potatoes cooked and peeled and in cubes, that alone will
add about an hour.  Cooking shows look effortless, but when you try the same
things at home you find it's not so easy when the ingredients don't come
expertly prepared in beautiful glass bowls.

So suppose you write a brilliant recipe, and you hand if off to the cooks to
make. They see "4 cups shallots in a blue bowl" in the ingredients.  Later,
they have a bunch of whole shallots, and they see the instruction "place the
shallots from the _bule bowl_ into the pot..." What do they do?

In programming, we often "return null" when something doesn't go as expected,
**which is the equivalent of the chef reading the directions deciding to
put dogshit into the pot.**

<img src="/img/2011/03/dogshit.jpg" style="margin: 15px auto; width: 400px;" alt="Dogshit" />

Here's the rationale: if you bite into dogshit, you **know** the recipe went
wrong and will immediately stop eating.  Another reason: you can't cover *every*
case, so if we put in some dogshit, we can still keep cooking! Why shut down the
entire kitchen because one stupid chef was careless with one of their
directions?

Do you see the problem though?  _**There's dogshit in the goddamned food.**_

Just like the weird shallot example, we have it (very, very frequently) in
programming: you can _declare_ that you'll use some data, and you can
_write instructions_ using that data, but you might miss the step of
saying what that data is, or by the time the data gets to that instruction it's
no longer what the coder thought it would be, and the current instruction is
impossible.

`null` is the [Scumbag Steve][4] of programming.

Like many of Computer Science's worst blights (e.g. goto), this was originally a
feature! You can imagine the inventors thinking "we'll let programmers be
responsible people, no need to baby them!"

**BAD. THIS IS BAD THINKING.** While you shouldn't tie the hands of programmers,
you also shouldn't give them something that never, ever provides a useful value,
*like keeping dog shit in the kitchen.*

*"But Paul!"* says the imperative programmer, *"I frequently use null checks
when I want to say that something went wrong, such as `fopen` not getting a
valid file handle!*  To which Paul says, "couldn't you use an error
code?  Proper exceptions?  This is 2011, kids!"

Sorry. Back to cooking.

Given that most chefs of the 90's were making food in kitchens with dogshit
flowing to and from them, what did we end up doing?  We ended up writing recipes
that looked like this:

    Make guacamole.
    *Check if it's dogshit*
    If it isn't, make refried beans.
    *Check if it's dogshit*
    After that, make some rice.
    *Check if their dogshit.*

The punchline is, if you didn't check, you'd only know you had dogshit when you
took a bite of food.  And if you _did_ find dogshit, what would you do?
Normally, _return more dogshit for someone else to cook with or figure out._

And the frequent checks for dogshit make for uninteresting and sad recipe
writing.

All that is minor annoyance, the real issue is this: **you can't compose your
recipes or programs if there is random dogshit flowing from all sides.**  You
need a certain level of trust in other code that it will either work as
promised, or if it fails, you can prepare adequately without your first warning
having to be biting into dogshit.

The functional languages (unsurprisingly) are on top of this: by eschewing state
and favoring evaluation of expressions rather than execution of statements, you
rarely end up with uninialized data. In the rare cases you want to, even a solution
as simple as the [Maybe monad][3] provide you null-like device that's statically
typed, and any function that calls it knows that it needs to handle the
`Nothing` case.

Blah. Rant over. Just code responsibly, comrades, as people break down and cry
because of code. I mean, I haven't. But people have, I'm sure.


   [1]: http://twitter.com/#!/SrPablo/status/50353105128259584
   [2]: http://lambda-the-ultimate.org/node/3186
   [3]: http://www.haskell.org/ghc/docs/7.0.2/html/libraries/base-4.3.1.0/Data-Maybe.html
   [4]: http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/scumbag-steve
