    Title: On Failure (Personal)
    Date:2011-05-31T12:00:00
    Tags: pablolife


To contrast to the [other part][1] of this double-post, let's talk about
something a little more familiar to the folk at home: **failing at life.** This
is prescient to me because of this:

<img src="/img/2011/05/degree.jpg" alt="My Brown degree." />

That is my degree from Brown University, a combined BS in Computer Science/BA in
Music. But didn't I graduate last year?

Well, technically no. Despite passing [higher-level neuroscience][3] and
[graduate-level programming languages][4], I failed [high school calculus][5],
which was a _prerequisite_ to studying computer science at Brown. Not a
requirement, mind you: a prerequisite. Meaning that in theory, I needed to
complete it before being _allowed_ to study computer science.

(the resolution, if you don't know, is that I took the course over the summer,
and passed. Because of this, I didn't graduate in the class of 2010, but
technically in the class of 2011 as a "non-enrolled student.")

What surprised me most, and (what I think) is **the most valuable lesson I got
from Brown, is that failing _hard_ is one of the best things that can happen to
you.** Only when you're kicked in the teeth and actually pushed to your limit do
you know what it means to _truly_ confront your demons, your weaknesses, and
test your _actual_ mettle.

Put another way: it's unlikely that you're proud of taking a shower this morning,
or that you look back fondly on the last time you tied your shoes. Those
presented no challenge; completing those tasks gave you no new knowledge of
the world, and no new knowledge of yourself. If you think back to anything
you're proud of, it's almost always been a challenge.

The fact that hard things are what make you proud isn't really anything new (nor
was it before I failed). The key realization for me was understanding that
_failing presents a much more heightened sense of accomplishment._ To wit, I was
incredibly proud of my high school production of _Arcadia_; but no matter how
hard or challenging that was, I'll always be more proud of the fact that I'm
programming professionally, if only because I was already good at
acting/directing, and had never been bad at it.  **Leaving your comfort zone and
being _truly_ uncomfortable is a growth experience too many bright people won't
experience.**

They have a saying in software testing: a successful test case is one that finds a
bug in the program. This means that when you test software, you remove all
formalities of being a kind or understanding person and put on a different hat,
thinking to yourself "what's the meanest, cruelest thing I can do to this
software? How can I BREAK THE SHIT OUT OF THIS."

It's a good thing to do this in life as well. Don't be stupid, but for the good
of you, take a risk every once in a while. You'll never be more proud.


   [1]: http://morepaul.com/2011/05/on-failure-computing.html
   [2]: http://www.morepaul.com/uploads/2011/05/degree.jpg
   [3]: https://wiki.brown.edu/confluence/display/Spring07BN0102S01/NEUR1020+Principles+of+Neurobiology
   [4]: http://cs.brown.edu/courses/cs273/2009/
   [5]: http://www.math.brown.edu/~banchoff/CalcPlacement.htm#CalcCourseDescriptions
