    Title: Life isn't fair and Eat, Pray, Love
    Date:2010-08-12T20:59:00
    Tags: pablolife

One of the smartest people I know recently wrote a blog post on
_Eat, Pray, Love_ and the backlash against it; the post was something of a
defense against that backlash.

She was speaking of a different type of backlash (namely women [who've taken
up Yoga and Spirituality and suffered dearly][1]), whereas I belong to another
group that's pretty well known: guys who hate _Eat, Pray, Love_. Hate is
probably too strong a word, allow me to elaborate.

<!-- more -->

First things first: no, I haven't read it. I probably won't, either, so feel
free to add that to a long list of reasons to discredit or grain-of-salt this
post, because there are a many. But my criticism isn't so much based on the
book itself, which I'm sure is fine, but on its cultural impact based on how
I've observed other people react to it.

I'll start by citing a tweet: when [PZ Myers][2] was being criticized for
being too mean to his opponents (calling them idiots, frauds, etc.), he more
or less brushed it off. But then someone mentioned that many of his targets
don't deserve it, as they're normally acting out of ignorance. [His
response][3] floored me with how he could, in 140 characters, point it out so
clearly:

> "Deserve" is a red herring. Life isn't fair, you don't get what you
> deserve...just have to hope you get what you need.

My major problem with Eat, Pray, Love is that **it is a product of - while
bolstering - a vague, responsibility-absolving entitlement to "happiness,"
comfort, "enlightenment," and self-satisfaction. And that this is inevitable
(you are a strong, wonderful person! You deserve it) and can be lots of fun!**
Note that while this book is overwhelmingly more popular with women, my
observation is that the previous point affects both men and women pretty hard.
Tons of guys I know get distraught over the fact that they don't feel _good
warm things_ all the time. I'll address the gender differential in the
specific case of the book later.

Maybe it's just from attending private school followed by Brown, but I'm
always observing people who are pretty lucky in their lives, are well-
educated, but just don't _feel happy_, and feel deep anguish that they don't
know what the meaning of their lives are.

I hate to burst your bubble, but you shouldn't. "Happiness," "inner peace,"
"enlightenment"... these aren't finish lines. You won't reach a point in your
life when you're like ***BAM***! I'm happy! Things are good! And I will never
be insecure about my talents or role in the world again!

It's kind of like getting your first sexual urges in Middle School: sorry, but
you will _always_ feel this way. You never reached a point in your life where
you suddenly stopped getting horny. You just acknowledged the urges, and
learned to deal with them, incorporating those feelings in your life in a more
healthy, day-to-day way.

Note that until you did, you struggled with the insecurities, exacerbated
loneliness, and questions about sex and sexuality in society that came (lol)
with those new sexual urges. It takes years (and some people never get there)
to get over the social cattiness and mess that arises from those insecurities.
There's a teething phase.

Similarly, there are big points in your life when you feel miserable, and
mostly, _untapped_. You feel your life is shallow, you haven't made a dent in
the world, your talents are unappreciated; you especially feel guilty that
this bothers you because you are better off than many others.

To which I say it's true: you are shallow, you're not impacting the world that
hard, and there are people who are much worse off. **But that's just life, and
it's no weakness or inadequacy on your part. There isn't anything you're
missing (or that you reasonably could do with any significant probability) to
change any of it.** So learn to live with it, because, as we say in software,
there is no silver bullet. Yoga might help, but probably won't. Same with
eating in the long term.

Though, here's the hardest one: you have no guarantee (or even an unofficial
right to the prospect) of a magical person you find lovely, wonderful, and
attractive will walk into your life and love you. _This might have nothing to
do with how wonderful you are as a person; you can be the kindest, smartest
person on Earth, and while this bumps up your odds a little, there's never a
guarantee._ You don't get what you deserve, just hope you get what you need.

As to how _EPL_ fits in to all this, and why it bothers me: _EPL_ shows the
story of someone we (privileged, educated unsatisfied people) can all relate
to and shows her either crossing the finish line, or making giant, giant steps
toward it. It (without meaning to) _exploited_ our misunderstandings and
fetishism of Eastern Mysticism and Hot Ethnic Love Abroad and pushed desperate
people wildly in that direction.

I feel about Elizabeth Gilbert and her talks, writing (i.e. the magazine
articles I've read) the way I feel about most priests: you clearly believe
what you preach and live pretty happily by doing so. You have every right to
do it and I won't stop you. But overall, I happen to think your messages are
snake oil/placebo, and ultimately takes us down further down a path I think
we're already too far into.

People then start looking at Yoga, travel, and Eastern Mysticism and get
conned they way they do at [homeopathy][4], or [chiropractors][5] (note that I
don't find the exercise component of Yoga nearly as toxic as those two. But
lots of those "gurus"? Most definitely). I just wish people would stop looking
for silver bullets, and I feel that _EPL_ puts a toy carrot in front of
everyone.

Regarding the gender difference: I think the book and its reception really
highlights the impossible situation women are put into. See the [Male
Privilege Checklist][6]: women are expected to be superbeings with
contradictory measures of success, and we are taught that they _fail_ if they
don't.

So if you're a woman, you get told by society as a whole, implicitly and
explicitly, that you're a failure or 'failing to perform' much more often than
guys. [Guys like you a lot less, unreasonably soon.][7]

Given all this, I find it not at all surprising that when you read a book that
appeals to your wants and wishes, that _you too_ could go to _eat and pray and
love_ and feel _warm and fuzzy and find what you've lost and oh my god it's
you!_, that they love it. Again, guys fall for this mindframe too, but this
book in particularly highlights the troubling situation women are in.

Personally, I'd rather put energy and resources in addressing the sexism in
society, trying to prevent insecurity and doubt becoming a problem in the
first place, rather than setting people up to fail by filling their heads with
fantasies of ashrams and vague, impossible notions of fulfillment.

I'll end with a favorite quote. It comes from *_why the lucky stiff*, [a minor
genius of our time][8], more or less prescribing what I think is the best way
out of these loops of self-futility and doubt: create. Write plays, or short
stories, or code, or fan fiction, or sand castles, or design model trains. Do
something you care about and can share with people. Give back. As he says:

"When you donâ€™t create things, you become defined by your tastes rather than
ability. Your tastes only narrow and exclude people. so create."


   [1]: http://jezebel.com/5610528/yogas-real-backlash
   [2]: http://scienceblogs.com/pharyngula/
   [3]: http://twitter.com/pzmyers/status/18273167053
   [4]: http://darryl-cunningham.blogspot.com/2010/06/homeopathy.html
   [5]: http://gimpyblog.wordpress.com/2008/08/17/the-libellous-simon-singh-article-on-chiropractors/
   [6]: http://www.amptoons.com/blog/the-male-privilege-checklist/
   [7]: http://alistairpott.com/2010/02/17/okcupid-statistics-on-older-women/
   [8]: http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/05/15/why-a-tale-of-a-post-modern-genius/
