    Title: Because I backtraced it!
    Date:2010-09-21T22:10:00
    Tags: pablolife

Here's another story of Internet lore, documented pretty well here at
[Know Your Meme][1].  I've [posted][2] [before][2] about remixes), and [the
internet making a story huge][4], and this one kind of combines the two.

First we have an incredibly foul-mouthed, unusually sexually knowledgeable 11
year-old girl:

<!-- more -->

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/hQKro8WEZ3I" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Before we continue, lets learn a few things here:

* This girl did wholly dumb, irresponsible things (there's a lot more than
this video). She's 11 so you can only blame her so much, but parents: please
be involved in your children's lives.

* While I don't think what follows is at all appropriate, she isn't
faultless. Frequently in conflicts _both_ sides are guilty; just that one side
might be guilty on the scale of three counts of murder and the other "only"
involuntary manslaughter.

So the greater trolls at 4Chan see this, and pounce. They [google bombed][5]
her, file fake police reports, [call her mom pretending to be the police][6],
spam her inbox, &etc. &etc. &etc. She's left to a smoldering pile of ashes,
when her dad makes her sadness unintentionally hilarious:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/NEfY3kMnG4E" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Another thing, parents: don't make threats you can't back up. Saying "I'm her
_father!_" doesn't incite fear in kids the way it used to, and don't invoke
"calling the Cyber Police!" unless you've actually spoken to them.

Look at the girl in the first video, and ask if _that_ kid would have been
threatened by the father in the second video.

I only mention this story because it led to one of my favorite remixes:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/dYrlj9VE2fg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

It's not as entertaining, of course, when you know the whole story.
[Gawker][7] has another write-up.


A few other reactions to this story:

* Another reason why computer science is great to study! It's a hell of an
investment, since technical knowledge follows you everywhere (don't forget
that it's just [amazing as hell][8], too).

* I look forward to when everyone's lives are more public. In the midst of
the Christine O'Donnell brou-haha is that she [admitted to once dabbling in
Witchcraft][9]. Ignoring the fact that if Obama or Pelosi had 'dabbled in
voodoo' or warlockery, her supporters would be having a conniption, to me the
greater point is that people can start to forgive poor choices or experiments
people have participated in because _we all do_.

I really hate that employers look on Facebook for incriminating photos to
"gotcha" with, even if the photos aren't incriminating. Don't confuse me: if
your employer finds you snorting a line of coke on your Facebook, I think
they're totally right to deny you the interview, since that's completely
stupid. I'm talking about the case where they find a picture of you holding a
Corona, then go _"oh shit he's out of the race because he should _know_ that
I'll look on here, and he has a picture with a beer_!"


Lame employers, I'll save you the trouble: [beer][10],[beer][10], [beer][11],
[party][12], [party][13]. Now a better question, did _you_ go to a party? Is
it surprising that in 5 years of undergrad, I did? Denying me an interview
from 5 photos over 5 years of the ~600 photos of me on Facebook tells me I'm
better off without you, because you don't want to talk to or hire people, but
some imaginary, outdated standard of a person.

Tying it all together: as more 11 year-olds rant stupidly into a camera, or
[misspell on their status updates][14], or have dumb photos up, we'll be
better prepared to be reasonable as well.

Need cheering up? [Robot Unicorn Attack][15]! Or my favorite this week, the
[Haskell alphabet!][16]


   [1]: http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/jessi-slaughter
   [2]: http://www.morepablo.com/2010/04/baal-bless-internet.html
   [3]: http://www.morepablo.com/2010/04/another-remix.html
   [4]: http://www.morepablo.com/2010/08/strong-words-bed-intruder.html
   [5]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_bomb
   [6]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C2cf6JFc1Xg
   [7]: http://gawker.com/5589103/how-the-internet-beat-up-an-11+year+old-girl
   [8]: http://www.morepablo.com/2010/04/metaphors-i-use-to-describe-software.html
   [9]: http://thinkprogress.org/2010/09/18/christine-odonnell-witchcraft/
   [10]: http://www.facebook.com/photo.php?pid=2733504&fbid=106745099551&op=10&o=global&view=global&subj=1010423&id=691574551
   [11]: http://www.facebook.com/photo.php?pid=32572619&fbid=533065679951&op=21&o=global&view=global&subj=1010423&id=1005106
   [12]: http://www.facebook.com/photo.php?pid=30160914&fbid=522139955191&op=34&o=global&view=global&subj=1010423&id=1009904
   [13]: http://www.facebook.com/photo.php?pid=30038373&fbid=522091916461&op=36&o=global&view=global&subj=1010423&id=1009840
   [14]: http://youropenbook.org/?q=definately&gender=any
   [15]: http://games.adultswim.com/robot-unicorn-attack-twitchy-online-game.html
   [16]: http://byorgey.wordpress.com/2010/09/18/the-haskell-alphabet/
