    Title: Life Update/Book Burning
    Date:2010-09-08T21:22:00
    Tags: pablolife

Time for a small life update, as the posts have slowed down for a while and
some narration is due:

I just moved to San Francisco after graduating from Brown in Providence, RI.
For a myriad of reasons I didn't spend much time at home over the summer, and
have been living in and out of boxes since May. Just last week I moved in to
my new apartment, and will slowly, surely become a normal well-adjusted human
being again.

<!-- more -->

Despite the change in locale, the main reason I've not updated (or been so
fast to move, or had much time to play) is that **I'm happily and proudly an
engineer at Adobe Systems,** working on their [AIR product.][3] It's really a
fantastic product, I suggest you all give it a look.

Products built on AIR that I particularly like are [Times Reader][4],
[TweetDeck][5], and (in a silly and simple way) [Webcam To Gif][6]. It's the
first time I'm programming professionally, and I can't be happier.

![Mouth Opening][7]
![Nervous Eyes][8]

![DENIED][9]
![Oh yeah][10]

Of course, it also doesn't help that Starcraft 2 was released on my second day
of work. I rarely get to play, but when I do, look out for [sicp][11], the
Platinum Zerg Menace on the US server.

Occasionally, I can still program for fun. I picked up [ScrabbleCheat][12]
again and virtually re-wrote the little I had: the previous approach was
quickly demoable, but hits a wall as soon as you try to generate moves from an
existing game board. Besides, the sooner I finish that, the sooner I can work
on my AIR app, SlashR ^_-

---

Now, forgive the language, but there's no better way to describe it: there's
some _stupid-ass shit_ happening right now regarding Muslims in this country.
First there's the manufactured Cordoba House controversy (I think Greenwald
sums it up best: if you think past a fourth-grade level about the opponent's
arguments, what they really want but obviously can't say is a [Muslim-
free][13] [zone][14] of unspecified distance. [This set of photographs][15] is
telling.).

Then we get [arson of a mosque in Tennessee][16].

The most personally insulting is ["Burn a Koran Day,"][17] since it's clearly
an unoriginal, hateful knockoff of Everyone Draw Mohammed Day (I describe the
event and my participation [here][18]). Clearly, they misunderstood Everyone
Draw since [they're doing it all wrong.][19]

Never mind the fact that these are Christians, apparently:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/vdtFk_V6A4M" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

In Everyone Draw, there were direct threats and acts of violence being
perpetrated in response to a specific, concrete expression of freedom of
speech, the result of which unambiguously _terrorized_ people from exercising
their Constitutional rights. If we were threatened and attacked by McDonalds,
we'd be agitating McDonalds.

The people behind Burn a Koran Day aren't in any direct danger and don't have
their rights directly threatened. They're doing this simply because they hate
and wish to hurt _all Muslims_ simply by virtue of being Muslim. If they try
to give an explanation, it's normally some vague babble of being a response to
9/11. _Please_. Yes, some (crazy few) Muslims want to kill you and I. I'll bet
that so do some (crazy few) Jews, some (crazy few) handicapped people, and
some (crazy few) vegans. This doesn't mean I should eat a lobster-bacon
cheeseburger while caning an invalid just to prove a point.

Is their religion stupid? Definitely. So is yours. You all have the right to
peacefully practice your silly superstitions, and you have every right to
insult them as badly as you want. Neither of you have the right to escape
criticism, and those of you planning this are the most stupid, hypocritical,
and pathetic people of this news cycle (and there is some stiff competition).

Really kids, what would Jesus do?


   [1]: http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TIhotgpnyQI/AAAAAAAAAG4/_RhybUX76E0/s200/Adobe_Air_Logo.jpg
   [2]: http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_3ys1dwfzc2w/TIhotgpnyQI/AAAAAAAAAG4/_RhybUX76E0/s1600/Adobe_Air_Logo.jpg
   [3]: http://www.adobe.com/products/air/
   [4]: http://timesreader.nytimes.com/timesreader/
   [5]: http://www.tweetdeck.com/
   [6]: http://www.adobe.com/cfusion/marketplace/index.cfm?event=marketplace.offering&offeringid=10223&marketplaceid=1
   [7]: http://pw.brown.edu/~paul/Mouthey.gif
   [8]: http://pw.brown.edu/~paul/Eyes.gif
   [9]: http://pw.brown.edu/~paul/NoNo.gif
   [10]: http://pw.brown.edu/~paul/YeahYeah.gif
   [11]: http://us.battle.net/sc2/en/profile/697265/1/sicp/
   [12]: http://github.com/paul-meier/ScrabbleCheat
   [13]: http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2010/8/17/is-the-mosque-issue-a-risk-for-obama/who-has-moral-courage
   [14]: http://www.salon.com/news/opinion/glenn_greenwald/2010/08/17/courage
   [15]: http://daryllang.com/blog/4421
   [16]: http://www.insurancejournal.com/news/southeast/2010/09/07/113034.htm
   [17]: http://articles.cnn.com/2010-07-29/us/florida.burn.quran.day_1_american-muslims-religion-cair-spokesman-ibrahim-hooper?_s=PM:US
   [18]: /2010/07/on-freedom-of-speech.html
   [19]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=08xQLGWTSag
