    Title: Updates to previous posts
    Date:2010-09-14T23:08:00
    Tags: pablolife

On my [Eat, Pray, Love][1] post, Lindy West over at The Stranger
[wrote a review of the movie adaptation][2] that more or less echoes my sentiments
(like I imagine for Ms. West, the sentiments get vicious primarily for
entertainment value). If you haven't seen her [Sex and the City 2 review][3],
its similar in style, tone, entertainment, and parallels with how I feel.

--

<!-- more -->

On my [Jason Robert Brown/living as an artist post][4], I hadn't read his post
recently enough to see his updates, which are marvelous, and demonstrate that
I've been a little unfair to him. I think my points still stand, but I'll just
quickly comment on one point in the updates: he links [a great rundown of why
most arguments for downloading are bunk][5], and mentions something similar to
mine. He states the "it's a broken business model anyways" fails because some
artists (like JRB) _do_ succeed in it, and the presence of a counterexample is
enough to refudiate that.

I'm afraid I'm not buying. It "works" for so unbelievably few artists its
essentially broken. Lynn Nottage, [a playwright produced more in the last
decade than Shaw, Brecht, and Wilde][6], _still_ [doesn't feel comfortable
giving up her day job.][7]

In any system there's going to be someone who wins. During my sister's medical
crisis, she received excellent care; this doesn't change the fact that we have
the worst healthcare system in the modern world. I'm glad it works for JRB,
the most famous living musical theatre composer. But for virtually everyone
else, even if you _do_ make it to the recordings/royalties stage, agents and
middlemen (and ha! illegal downloaders) will kill your earnings.

Remember, I'm not saying it's okay to download illegally, just stating that
people absolutely will, and to hope they don't is like lying on the beach
hoping the tide doesn't rise.

--

Finally, probably the most significant, on [the post about that redneck who
wanted to burn Korans.][8] I've changed my mind a little to broaden my
disdain; the original post was mostly angry at him and Americans. Now I'm just
mad at pretty much everyone.

Again, let there be no confusions: we're being a bunch of idiots here. We have
guys [screaming "Kill All Muslims"][9], and Fox once again shows they would
rather stir up dangerous hate for obscene profit rather than make slightly
minimized obscene profit through safer methods. I hate to be that kid who
links the Daily Show,
[but they really nailed it](http://www.thedailyshow.com/watch/mon-september-13-2010/islamophobiapalooza).

(also... that Imam is **awesome**).

But we go back full circle to the reason for Everyone Draw: [Ayatollahs issued
fatwas on the book burners][10]. So we're back to muslim terrorism over free
speech. So I'm back to hating on idiot Muslims (and urging moderate Muslims to
to fight _them_ before they throw stones (err, bad choice of words) anywhere
else).

Finally, I'm angry at the world. President Obama? The Pope? Really? I'm with
Yglesias, ["guy burns books"][11] can't be a global event anymore.

Okay. Time go get Glad, there's been lots of bile on this blog recently. I'll
close with my favorite headline, stolen from reddit:

**"Is anyone else OUTRAGED that atheists plan on building ABSOLUTELY NOTHING
at Ground Zero!?!?!?**


   [1]: http://www.morepablo.com/2010/08/life-isnt-fair-and-eat-pray-love.html

   [2]: http://slog.thestranger.com/slog/archives/2010/09/14/pay-sit-barf

   [3]: http://www.thestranger.com/seattle/burkas-and-birkins/Content?oid=4132715

   [4]: http://www.morepablo.com/2010/08/making-living-being-artist.html

   [5]: http://www.digitalsociety.org/2010/07/jason-robert-brown-debates-rationalization-of-theft/

   [6]: http://www.thestranger.com/slog/archives/2010/01/12/what-audiences-want-to-watch&view=comments

   [7]: http://slog.thestranger.com/slog/archives/2010/06/23/arena-stage-in-washington-dc-puts-playwrights-on-the-payroll

   [8]: http://www.morepablo.com/2010/09/life-updatebook-burning.html

   [9]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VoCAbieZj1w

   [10]: http://www.businessweek.com/news/2010-09-13/iran-ayatollahs-issue-fatwas-against-koran-burners.html

   [11]: http://yglesias.thinkprogress.org/2010/09/on-koran-burning/
