    Title: Blog updates (2017)
    Date: 2017-12-21T14:28:12
    Tags: personal, blog-meta, projects

**I posted yesterday!**

I let a lot of time get between my posts, but this isn't because I'm not
having ideas that wouldn't be fun to share:

- By choosing such a ["hacker stack"][1] instead of [following my own advice for
  other people][2] and choosing something like Ghost, I inadvertently made it
  _more_ effort to get posts up.

- Like most people, I've become more conscious of my Brand™ and felt like
  writing should only happen if it was capital-I Important or smart-sounding.

I've decided to start making an effort to put more of my thoughts/digital
presence on here than in closed platforms we've all come to love.

As a result, I did a few things yesterday:

- Switched to [HSTS][3] — now you should see this site on HTTPS or nuthin'.
- Set up my new work laptop to easily author/post, and made a few little changes
  to [the GH repo of the code][4] that powers this blog.
- Finally published another post, [something I wrote last summer][5]. Better
  than when I wrote [2016 In Review][6] in December 2016 but I only hit publish
  in, like, June 2017.
- Added Google Analytics so I have _some_ idea of who's coming here. I'll keep
  crap like that to a minimum, and encourage everyone to get on [uBlock
  Origin][8] and/or [setting Do Not Track][9] on their Firefoxes (or off-brand
  Firefoxes). I've confirmed that it blocks the GA on this site.

I have a few other things coming down the pipe:

- [Open Graph][7] tags so the posts share well on The Enemy Sites.
- A disclaimer that shows up on posts above a certain age, something like<br
  /><blockquote><strong>Hey! Thanks for reading! Just a reminder that I wrote this <em>-X-</em> years ago, and 
may have much more complicated feelings about this topic than I did when I
wrote it.</strong></blockquote>I have a lot of posts on here that I keep for
archiving reasons, sentimental reasons, and to remind myself that I'm a
work-in-progress. But… I'd hate for some people to read them and believe that
that's what I'm thinking _currently._ Nothing on here is downright egregious,
but some of it makes me wince.
- Auto-post a digest from my tweets. Most of what I love about blogs moved to
  Twitter, a digest of "Pablo's week in tweets" might be good, and make this
  better-reflect how I've been doing. Hell, I could even backfill it.
- A better design for index pages and the actual homepage. I more-or-less like
  how the individual post pages look.

And more!

The **main** thing I'm after is just writing a little more than I do, about more
things, and not as Ponderously. I might have a "Greatest Hits" sidebar with
posts that cover times I've said something, but I miss blogs when they were a
bit more ephemeral.

   [1]: /About-Site.html
   [2]: /2013/11/blogging-solutions.html
   [3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security
   [4]: https://github.com/pablo-meier/Pablog
   [5]: /2017/12/company-culture.html
   [6]: /2017/06/year-in-review.html
   [7]: http://ogp.me
   [8]: https://www.ublock.org/
   [9]: https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/how-do-i-turn-do-not-track-feature
