    Title: Towards a More Open Web
    Date: 2018-01-02T15:12:43
    Tags: pablolife, culture

<div class="caption-img-block" style="margin: 25px auto">
  <img src="/img/2018/1/turtle_THUMB.jpg" alt="Hooray for turtles." style="margin: 15px auto;" />
<p style="font-style: italic; text-align: left; font-size: small">Credit: <a
href="https://pxhere.com/en/photo/1064330" target="_blank">Pxhere</a></p>
</div>

I've started blogging more. I've also invested more recently in tooling around
modifying this site. This was never a bad idea for me to do, but there is a
reason behind it: I'm consciously trying to move away from my dependence and
contribution to [an internet modeled on feudalism][1], where all the power is
held and gated by Facebook, Google, and Amazon. I don't think this is good for
me, and I don't think it's been good for societies, generally.

<!-- more -->

This isn't a new observation, and I'm not the only person to take action for it.
Here are some other articles that inform this set of choices:

**[Against an Increasingly User-Hostile Web][4]** by Parimal Satyal, describes
the problem with excellent examples, offers suggestions for ways forward.

**[How to Stay Internet Friends Without Facebook or Twitter][2]** by Jon
Mitchell describes a similar path I'm taking: posting more on a personal blog,
sharing (and logging into) less on those networks, using alternative services,
relying on tech like RSS.

**[The Web Began Dying in 2014, Here's How][3]** by André Staltz describes how
web traffic has been routed over the years and identifies 2014 when the web
became less of a "Web" and more of braid of three major tangles.

**[The Web We Lost][5]** by Anil Dash is an old favorite of mine, describing the
culture around web services and it more readily encouraged value generation
through mixing/accessibility and user protections.

<h3 id="what-have-i-done-so-far">What have I done so far?</h3>

- Making authoring posts/publishing the blog a whole lot easier. Blog tech/meta
  is often pretty boring, so I won't go into it.
  
- Subsequently, posting more! And having more fun with it. Adding songs to the
  posts now.

- Licensing my work as Free Software instead of Open Source. This might merit
  its own post, but I think this is a great thing to do as well.

- Fully switched to Firefox rather than Chrome, on all platforms.

- Beefed up and started using my [Feedly][11] account more.

<h3 id="what-am-i-doing-in-addition-whats-on-the-roadmap">What am I doing in addition? What's on the roadmap?</h3>

- Something like a newsletter. I'd like to enable folks to subscribe to posts in
  batches via email, like a digest, so one doesn't have to check back all the
  time (there's always RSS, but it's not on most people's radar).

- I might fork or replace [Frog][9]. It's a fantastic engine, but there's a bit
  more I'd like to do and it might be easiest for me to hack on a clone, or
  build something myself.

- Host a [Discourse][6] instance (or something like it) to provide discussion
  capabilities to posts. Comments don't work especially well on a static site
  without some kind of external provider like Facebook or Disqus, nor do I think
  they'd be amazing at encouraging discussion or community building.

- Migrate data from Twitter and Facebook onto this site. Twitter, at least, has
  a great "get all my tweet history" tool. At the very least I can check it into
  the repo to source control it.

- Write tools that allow newly-published posts to go out to various feeds. The
  distribution would still be nice, as long as the content, at its core, lives
  with me and is mine.

- Maybe look into hosting my own [Mastodon][8] instance for myself and/or
  friends.

<h3 id="exceptions">Exceptions?</h3>

There are a few exceptions I'd like to note:

- I'll probably still keep my Gmail account. Your email address is something
  like [your online Driver's License,][7] and I'm already registered a million
  places with it. Furthermore, it's pretty important to have your email and
  email account secured, and few places do this as well as Google.

- Android phone. From a security and privacy perspective, I really should [just
  get an iPhone][12] (especially since [Google removed the headphone jack from
  their flagship phone][10], a super anti-consumer move I'll never understand).
  But veering away from either of the big two here means no app ecosystem (maybe
  something I can give up, but not now) and/or decent risk of shooting myself in
  the foot.

- This site is hosted on AWS, and I think it's unlikely this changes. The
  offering is incredibly cheap, and managing your own servers is a **bear.**

<h3 id="a-process">A process</h3>

Like going vegetarian or vegan, one can transition slowly. I tried quitting
Twitter a few years ago and it absolutely didn't last. But now I'm in a better
place and ready for more of a marathon than a sprint. If you have the means
and/or desire to break from the centralized internet, I encourage you to
consider it. No single person picking up litter will clean an entire city, but
if enough people in the city do it…

   [1]: https://www.schneier.com/essays/archives/2012/11/when_it_comes_to_sec.html
   [2]: https://jonmitchell.net/blog/how-to-stay-internet-friends-without-facebook-or-twitter
   [3]: https://staltz.com/the-web-began-dying-in-2014-heres-how.html
   [4]: https://www.neustadt.fr/essays/against-a-user-hostile-web/
   [5]: http://anildash.com/2012/12/the-web-we-lost.html
   [6]: https://www.discourse.org/
   [7]: https://blog.codinghorror.com/your-internet-drivers-license/
   [8]: https://joinmastodon.org/
   [9]: https://github.com/greghendershott/frog
   [10]: https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2017/10/pixel-2-and-2-xl-review-the-best-android-phone-you-can-buy/3/#h2
   [11]: https://feedly.com
   [12]: https://motherboard.vice.com/en_us/article/d3devm/motherboard-guide-to-not-getting-hacked-online-safety-guide
