    Title: Favorite Sketches
    Date: 2018-10-18T15:42:49
    Tags: culture
    og_image: https://morepablo.com/img/2018/10/joad-cressbeckler_THUMB.jpg
    og_description: Some videos I've been watching for years and years.

<small><em>The song for this post is <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JAxDgkVlve0">OYAHYTT</a>, by The Coup feat. Lakeith Stanfield.</em></small>

Someone on Facebook asked recently what their friends' favorite sketches were,
that they re-watch over and over again. I have a few.

### Wheat Thins Sponsortunity

This is from _The Colbert Report_, which I'll always, forever and ever, stan for
as being better than _The Daily Show_:

<div style="background-color:#000000;width:520px;"><div style="padding:4px;"><iframe src="//media.mtvnservices.com/embed/mgid:arc:video:comedycentral.com:30939a4f-defa-49cb-952e-ee11affb63e6" width="512" height="288" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true"></iframe></div></div>

If you've watched decisions get made at a company before, the words in that
letter just spear you.

### Joad Cressbeckler

Joad Cressbeckler is a personality invented by _The Onion News Network_ playing
the same game as Colbert: making fun of what cable news had become in the late
aughts and early 10's. The character was introduced in the run-up of the 2008
campaign [here](), and got a bit more mileage [here]() and [here](). The
performance peaked after he got his own cable news show:

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/WJ3_6pcdGuU" frameborder="0"
allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

To truly appreciate the writing and performance, I dare anyone to watch
Joad Cressbeckler and try to deliver his lines back to him. It's fun!

Like a lot of things of that era, it can hurt to watch now if you think too hard
about it. The moral failings of the large-C Conservative movement in this
country didn't happen overnight.

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/rsBRfmErTEA" frameborder="0"
allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### FOOTBALL

This one has a bit more of a set-up phase, and absolutely lands the dismount.

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/MusyO7J2inM" frameborder="0"
allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Early Clickhole

Clickhole is a spinoff of The Onion, with the tagline "All Content Deserves to
Go Viral." While _Colbert_ and _Onion News Network_ came about to criticize
cable news, ClickHole was prescient and critical about online media, a world
where everything had to be made bite-sized and shareable. For context, it came
about when _Upworthy_ raised a ton of VC for its famous clickbait headlines, and
BuzzFeed was eating the internet with listicles.

The most general-purpose Clickhole I'd recommend is this one, referencing
the cottage industry of "divine tourism" books like [Colton
Burpo](http://www.heavenvisit.com/Colton_Burpo.php):

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/cjd8E1rD3m4" frameborder="0"
allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

But I've got many of them closer to my heart. This one makes me feel more than
most things that are designed to make me feel:

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/LfJTcP87hsU" frameborder="0"
allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

And I've yet to find anyone else in the real world who appreciates this one as
much as me. If you love this one too, please, let's hang out, I'm very lonely.

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/xBugKYvktg0" frameborder="0"
allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
