    Title: This week
    Date: 2018-03-05T22:44:01
    Tags: culture
    og_description: Things I liked this week

<small><em>The song for this post is <a
href="https://soundcloud.com/edes421/barenaked-ladies-one-week-but-all-of-the-instruments-are-replaced-with-its-been">Barenaked Ladies' One week but all of the instruments are replaced with "Its Been"</a>, by edes421.</em></small>

Late by a day, but [as with last week][1], here are some nice things for the
week:

---

### Long-form inspiration

I enjoy watching tech talks, but the best ones connect the use of tech with
wider questions of purpose and being. One that gets a lot of love and traction
is <a href="https://vimeo.com/36579366">Bret Victor's <em>Inventing on Principle</em></a>, which I recommend.

But! Recently I came across one of the more inspiring ones I've seen in years,
which was [Matt Might][6] writing about [Precision Medicine][3]:

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/C_bGohb0HgM?rel=0&amp;start=84"
frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If you have the time, take a look.

### Speedrun magic

If you play video games or program computers, and haven't gotten into speedruns,
my friend, there's a beautiful world there. It's a beautiful mix of human
creativity and persistence applied to the engineering realities of games. It
fosters rich communities. The challenges are bottomless. As Jake Eakle has said,
[eat your videogames!][3] They're better for you that way!

He pointed me to this lovely explanation of Super Mario Bros. speedrunning:

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/_FQJEzJ_cQw?rel=0" frameborder="0"
allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If you're hungry for another shot at this kind of thing, [this writeup][4] of
Spelunky's eggplant run is tops.

### Pixel Art

This is an old favorite: [A Pixel Artist Renounces Pixel Art][7], by Blake
Reynolds, which goes into art, aesthetics, and authenticity in the context of
giving up one of their preferred forms. Any article that does an animation
comparison/breakdown with this gif:

<div class="caption-img-block" style="margin: 25px auto">
<img src="/img/2018/3/chun-li-comparison.gif" alt="Chun-Li fireball comparison. Click for full size." style="margin: 15px auto;" />
</div>

really deserves to be read.

### Bonus: Previous "5 Points"

I mentioned how this post was inspired by an email I got every week from a
friend. He recently [retro-published all his 5 Points emails][5], so give them a
look for some lovely findings!

   [1]: /2018/02/this-week.html
   [3]: https://medium.com/mammon-machine-zeal/eat-your-videogames-ac36624a7d0c
   [4]: https://www.polygon.com/2013/12/23/5227726/anatomy-of-a-spelunky-miracle-or-how-the-internet-finally-beat
   [5]: https://aaronloringdavis.com/blog/
   [6]: http://matt.might.net/
   [7]: www.dinofarmgames.com/a-pixel-artist-renounces-pixel-art/
