    Title: ðŸ•º Dance videos, paths not taken ðŸ’ƒ
    Date: 2020-05-14T21:00:11
    Tags: blurb, pablolife, culture
    og_image: https://morepablo.com/img/2020/5/studio_THUMB.jpg
    og_description: I talk about where I almost made different life choices, and link a ton of memorable dance sequences.

<small>ðŸŽµ <em>The song for this post is <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UuJVleNkJj0">Outa Space</a>, by Billy Preston.</em> ðŸŽµ</small>

<div class="caption-img-block" style="margin: 25px auto">
<img src="/img/2020/5/studio_THUMB.jpg" alt="Pablo mirror selfie, sweaty in a blacklight dance studio." style="margin: 15px auto;" />
<p style="font-style: italic; text-align: center; font-size: small">Me after a dance fitness class in 2017, for the studio I was briefly an instructor for.</p>
</div>

One of the _Animal Crossing_ characters asked me what my dream job was, and I
answered "dancer." There's a real _Sliding Doors_ moment in my life where if
John Emigh hadn't decided to do a large-cast mainstage show saying he needed
Latinx actors, I maybe never would have studied computers at all and
been hustling as a dancer.

I'll try to tell the story in three paragraphs: I went to Brown expecting to do
theater, but the structure of their Theater department keeps freshmen out of
acting and directing classes, so I tried something new and took a Modern Dance
class instead. A scheduling conflict meant that I took the Beginning level two
days of the week and the Advanced the other two days. I was horrible, but being
active and physically challenged helped me through some tough times (hello
friend's suicide attempt), and it had most things I loved about theater plus
_real superpowers you could grow with practice_ while avoiding some of straight
theater's bullshit (while, naturally, introducing bullshit of its own). I did an
intensive dance program that summer and finally got good enough to confidently
audition for crews my sophomore fall.

Butâ€¦ the dance crew auditions were a week after the casting of _Much Ado About
Nothing_, which has a huge cast, and the director wanted to do it in
19th-century California. He said, "if you could dance latin styles, that was a
plus. I'd also love actors who speak Spanish." To do the show was
also making a choice not to dance until next semester's dance crew auditions,
but here was a Pablo-shaped opportunity to finally enter Brown's Theater
community. I auditioned, and got the shittiest role (literal
spear-holder Balthasar); the leads were White, nobody in this play had to
speak much Spanish or dance latin styles lol. I made some good friends but it
was totally unmemorable, and much of me wish I'd danced instead.

_But_, that got me known to a few people in the theater scene as an actor. So
when a playwright named Charly needed an actor for her reading, I was available,
I said yes, would go on to apply and get into [Sock & Buskin][1] and [production
workshop][2], Charly and I would date for two years (twice), &c &c &c. Those
experiences led to me eventually getting chewed the fuck out, deciding to
dedicate myself to computers, and, wellâ€¦

But! If I'd only said "nah, I want to dance" and backed out of saying 11
unimportant lines as Balthasar, I wouldn't have applied to the theater boards,
probably wouldn't have dated Charly, would have found a new purpose in dancing.
I would have had different friends, different communities, different community 
dramas, different partners.

So the most surprising thing about my 30's has been all the fascism. Nobody
tells you about the fascism in your 30's! But the second big thing about my 30s 
is having a real history as an adult of stories not materialized, except for the
one that did.

---

Roundabout way of saying: I love to dance! I went to a wedding last year where
two (2) moms came to me to ask who I was + tell me their daughters were here
without a date. Zumba and Pon de FLO were how I got into fitness in my late
20's, and I miss them like crazy.

A good dance sequence is joyful for me. Here are a few memorable ones, I dare
you to play them, step away from the screen, and try to follow along! We're in
quarantine, shoot your shot and dance! ðŸ˜ƒ

(also, share your favorites please!)

<iframe width="800" height="450" style="max-width: 95%" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/TVxBmXz5QGs" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Umbrella Academy.** This show wasâ€¦ okay? I read a few of the comics way back
when and think this is a fine-enough adaptation. It reminds me of the ["correct
games" section of this essay][3] where it checks off all the boxes of a formula
we've derived after years of practice for "prestige pulpy show" but still feels
somewhat hollow. _The Magicians_ is a way better bet for this kind of thing.

But! It's scored extremely well (a shootout to "Istanbul" by They Might Be
Giants was a pleasure), and I found this sequence pretty cute for the narrative
purpose it served.

<iframe width="800" height="450" style="max-width: 95%" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/wCDIYvFmgW8" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Christopher Walken in _Weapon of Choice_.** This came out inâ€¦ the early
aughts? Christopher Walken wasn't exactly a household name (most people knew him
from _Pulp Fiction_, I knew him as the inexplicable romantic rival in _Wayne's
World 2_). But somewhere I'd already read that he was a hell of a dancer (also
why he was a good fit for _Hairspray!_), but it wasn't common knowledge, because
this video took a lot of people by surprise.

Really, picking Fatboy Slim is cheating, he incorporates dance extremely well in
everything he does: the delightfully low-tech + simple [_Praise You_ video][4],
or [_Wonderful Night_][5]. But I'll pick this, also because it's voiced by
Bootsy Collins, who has always been a personal idol for the reasons [I mentioned
in my Jazz post.][6]

<iframe width="800" height="450" style="max-width: 95%" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/BiAwpYIkRmU" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Napoleon Dynamite.** I don't quite know how to remember _Napoleon Dynamite._
The early aughts were a weird time, and most guys in my position (too caught up
in their heads, not participating in narratives of any kind but _especially_
narratives of traditional masculinity) looked for "weird art" to point at and
identify with. So I adopted this movie a bit as something special, and it wasn't
_not_, necessarily. But I have a feeling I'd cringe a bit at watching it again.

(Weirdly, one of my happiest memories is watching _Blades of Glory_, Jon Heder's
subsequent movie with Will Farrell, with my brother. I'm almost certain that
movie aged less well, and was less good even when it was released)

Anyway, this is legit a delightful performance to an amazing song.

<iframe width="800" height="450" style="max-width: 95%" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/dMH0bHeiRNg" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Evolution of Dance meme**. This is mostly here for historical interest: for
years this was YouTube's most watched video. Most of my focus in my later
theater days was on physical theater, because I loved how universal 
movement is, so it was fitting a minutes-long gag would unite all the people
who's only commonality was "we're on the Internet." IIRC, this eventually lost
its top spot to Justin Bieber's _Baby_, and replacing this with a real-life
gilded pop star signifies some kind of turning point in the Internet being
a DARPA experiment taken over by bored weirdos and instead being the next public
infrastructure for entrepreneurs to Clear Channel.

<iframe width="800" height="450" style="max-width: 95%" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/1TewCPi92ro" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Obviously, a look at TikTok shows that dancing is still Where It's At,
Internet-wise. And I think of this video every Friday.

<iframe width="800" height="450" style="max-width: 95%" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/3JZ4pnNtyxQ" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Sax, by Fleur East.** I tried not to include actual music videos, but I'll
relax the restriction for these last few. I can't decide if I love or hate the
clown-vomit-kaleidoscope color game this plays, but _goddamn_ is everyone in
this video gorgeous. While I never formally taught Zumba classes (I taught a few
of a different brand, and _that_ is another story for oversharing later), I
had a Zumba playlist set up and some choreography, this tune was definitely
going to make it.

<iframe width="800" height="450" style="max-width: 95%" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/pGBbvAGnTxA" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="800" height="450" style="max-width: 95%" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/LvynY2OJnt0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

**Daddy, Lovey Dovey.** The polish on K-Pop is some of the most
virtuostic shit on the planet and if you're looking for a hole to fall into,
this one is tons of fun. If you put "[kpop group] dance practice" in YouTube
you'll pull up all sorts of great shit. These are two of my favorites, the T-ARA
choreography has a lot going for it (that really great shuffle, the moonwalking,
which is a light nod to _Thriller_ since [the video for this song is about a
zombie attack][7]); and DADDY because it's a fantastic pop song and a _perfect_
Zumba song, where you could even take some of the professional choreography and
give it to fitness kids (also, this video is way better than the actual video
lol).

**EDIT** Karen has since read this post and found a _startling omission_: this
guy.

<iframe width="800" height="450" style="max-width: 95%" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/ne6nj9AgY7M" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

   [1]: https://www.brown.edu/academics/theatre-arts-performance-studies/undergraduate/sb-season
   [2]: http://pw.brown.edu/
   [3]: https://web.archive.org/web/20181231071417/https://plus.google.com/+DanielCookGameDesign/posts/W3ys5fKnz5t
   [4]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ruAi4VBoBSM
   [5]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lEF6G19G98I
   [6]: /2020/04/doom-music-jazz.html
   [7]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CJ0djllyqwY
