    Title: üê∏ California update üå¥
    Date: 2020-07-20T15:22:08
    Tags: pablolife, blurb
    og_image: https://morepablo.com/img/2020/7/pablo_dune_THUMB.jpg
    og_description: Pure life update of how I'm feeling + where I am.

<small>üéµ <em>The song for this post is <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ug50oOD_CjE">Let Me Down</a>, by Fea.</em> üéµ</small>

<div class="caption-img-block" style="margin: 25px auto">
  <a href="/img/2020/7/pablo_dune.jpg" target="blank"><img src="/img/2020/7/pablo_dune_THUMB.jpg" alt="Top of Pablo's head overlooking some sand dunes. That's a lot of hair, buddy." style="margin: 15px auto;" /></a>
</div>

I've slowed down blogging! Bad Pablo!!

Really, I've fallen back into old patterns that I was trying to avoid. About
once or twice a year I get **so fed up** with Twitter and I look in the mirror
and say "what the fuck man, you get one life" and delete the app and when
I'm about to open it out of habit again for those micro-seratonin doses guarded
by the alligators of News Tweets of Despair, I remember the pain and say "no,
that shit is how you'll piss away your life," and open an ebook or play with my
dog or stare at the wall. And for a while, I start to feel good again. It's
hard, but I eventually disengage enough to breathe a bit and see how life
operates for the non-Perpetually Online. 

‚Ä¶but then I peek a week or two later, you know, just once, because I hear of a
news event that speaks to me, and I want to see the memes. Or I get bored enough
and the book I'm reading isn't quite doing it for me. Then I do it more and
more, and by the end of the week I'm back to my bullshit.

I remember someone telling me the experience watching American daytime soaps:
they got into them really hard, then a life event pulled them away from watching
_Days Of Our Lives_ or _As The World Turns_ and they came back a year later and
realized _so much happened_ while they were gone and none of it mattered. They
plugged back in and could get swept back into it if they wanted to. Twitter
drama is a lot like that: when I take these breaks, I realize there's a month of
narratives that I missed, but none of them really impacted my life.

I got a bit of surprise hard news last week, when it was already a
stressful week of preparing for travel I'm feeling mixed about, and it shocked
me hard enough to want out of many complacencies of my day-to-day life. I just
can't keep doing (gestures wildly) this. Doomscrolling on Twitter and "wearing
the human suit" socially while being too tired and afraid to feel, sincerely, to
myself and others. Or to pursue a dream or two.

Odds are I will, of course, go _right_ back to my old bullshit. I've many
friends who resolve to "make some changes" about once a year and make exactly
"some" changes. Epiphanies feel powerful, but our shit runs deep, and one can't
blow up their life and come out whole (I've tried, it really hurt). But the
weight-loss/body-shaping initiative taught me that the hardest part of any
change is being committed to it; I started with an experiment in counting
calories and am now somewhere unrecognizable from where I started. I can shape
the rest of my life too.

But goddamn it's hard. It takes time. And I wish it didn't hurt so much to get
there.

---

I'm in California now. It was Sapo's first time flying!

<div class="caption-img-block" style="margin: 25px auto">
  <a href="/img/2020/7/sapo_airport.jpg" target="blank"><img src="/img/2020/7/sapo_airport_THUMB.jpg" alt="Sapo's head looking at the EWR terminal." style="margin: 15px auto;" /></a>
</div>

He was an Emotional Support Animal. Because I'm on the brink, guys! Without this
creature, _I might blow my lid on a flight!_, you know? It's in the airline's
interest to let this too-large-for-my-lap sniff machine sit with me, since
_without him, I just might not make it!!!_

ESA's are a scam, of course, but it'll let your dog fly free. My
therapist was kind enough to fill out an Alaska Airlines form saying yes,
Pablo's brain is broken, and he'd crumble like the most delicate orchid without
his wizard's familiar. 

The airports (EWR and SFO) are extremely empty. The traffic getting in and out
of them was the least I've seen them. Most people are wearing masks. I'm still
worried I got The Bad Thing.

---

<div class="caption-img-block" style="margin: 25px auto">
  <a href="/img/2020/7/sapo_flight.jpg" target="blank"><img src="/img/2020/7/sapo_flight_THUMB.jpg" alt="Sapo looking out an airplane window." style="margin: 15px auto;" /></a>
</div>

I have many conflicted feelings about this trip. It's objectively a Good Idea
to have a change of pace after being in our apartment for 5 months. We didn't
have anything to look forward to, really: festivals and events were all
cancelled, and we'd had no vacation plans besides them. "Working from home"
becomes "living at work" pretty quickly with young startups, and we're working
ourselves pretty hard.

I think Karen and I are still doing pretty well (we'd heard about [the Wuhan
divorce rate after their lockdown][3] and wondered if we'd learn to hate each
other. Not yet!) but other friends provide good stimulus and we were missing
that. A fun Group House is still a bit of a dream for us (stronger on her end
than mine, but this was the idea behind [Cichlidia][4]), so she and a friend
coordinated and rented a house in San Luis Obispo, where we'll stay for a few
weeks at least.

On one hand, California rules. The weather is great, there are bird calls, and
this house has a hot tub. But there's a lot that makes this a challenge for me.
Getting here was a major COVID risk. The friend we're staying with doesn't "get"
Sapo, and vibes way more easily with Karen than I. A lot of my mental health is
well-regulated by the rituals I have being home (the cooking, the bodyweight
workout, the setup I created for working remotely). I'm still working during
these two weeks and I suspect it'll be harder to keep up my output for my job,
myself, and as a partner. You want to come out of something like this refreshed
and/or inspired and/or invigorated but a lot of ingredients here usually leave
me tired.

I'm very lucky to have done foreign exchange growing up: I did [YFU][1]
to live with a family in Japan for 5 weeks when I was 15, and [CISV][2]
to do 2 weeks with a family in Norway when I was 19. It feels a bit like the
first days of those: energy-intensive and _seemingly interminable_, "this was
all the first day, how will I get through [duration of the trip]?!?" But those
were also some of the biggest growth experiences in my life, and I can say
whatever the outcome (sans a bad COVID story), I'll be glad I took the plunge
and came here.

I'll also try to blog more, since I was happier, I think, when I wasn't back on
my bullshit.

   [1]: https://www.yfuusa.org/
   [2]: https://cisv.org/
   [3]: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-03-31/divorces-spike-in-china-after-coronavirus-quarantines
   [4]: /2019/05/introducing-cichlidia.html
