# About (this site)

This website is built a bit atypically; and while I think this bores a ton of 
people, hopefully others will find it interesting.

## Current

### Content

The repo for the site is hosted on GitHub [here][3]. It's a generated static
site, a la [Jekyll][1] or [Octopress][2]. I'm using [Frog][4], for a few
reasons:

* [Racket!][7]

* Greg Hendershott, author of Frog, wrote [the best damn Scheme Macro tutorial ever.][8]

* Generated sites are extremely cheap to host, I can version control the content.

I used Jekyll previously, but its original author [heinously mismanaged
GitHub][6] and was a petulant little asshole about his deservedly shameful exit.
I'll follow [Julie's advice][5] and not associate with him or his work if I can
help it.

I've [written before][9] about various other blogging engines and approaches
I've used over the years, and while I think my preference is for a self-hosted
out-of-the-box system like [Ghost][10], its generally not worth the trouble of
migrating at this point ðŸ˜›

I use a few scripts on top of Racket to manage things:

* A [simple shell script][39] to publish the built site.
* A [command here and there][40] in a Makefile around the Frog commands.
* A [tool to facilitate image uploads][41]. It's in OCaml, which is terrible
  "right tool for the job" thinking: Python would have been much less trouble.
  Still, I learned things ðŸ˜„ The issues I'm solving for images are in [the
  README.][42]

I'm _loosely_ planning on migrating this to a tool I write. There's some
functionality that I'd like to have that I don't think I'd like to argue for in
the upstream branch, nor do I want to hard fork it. Besides, I like the excuse
to play in a new stack.

### Hosting

Being a static site, it's comparably easy to host this in S3. I use a full AWS
stack of S3, CloudFront, and Route 53. A decent guide to do this is [here][32].

Note that if you want to add [HSTS][37] with this stack, it's a bit more
cumbersome than using CloudFlare as I did before, when I was hosting this on a
running nginx container. Julia Evans [explains the basics of the tech here][34],
and this posts [explains how to do it in this stack here][35]. If you're feeling
so empowered, check your site [Mozilla Observatory][36].

Comments were something of A Decision, I ended up using [Discourse][] with
[embedded topics][]. The main other contender was [Talk][], as part of [The Coral
Project][]. If you're looking for a solution, you can also look at [Staticman][].

The Discourse instance is hosted on Digital Ocean, because the prices for the
compute looked comparable and their interface is just a whole lot nicer.

### Styles

The backbone of this aesthetic comes from [Best Motherfucking Website][43], part
of a family of sites I mentioned [here.][44]

That said, I do add images to most posts, and I'm adding styles/nav back. I am
committed to keeping this site pretty simple.

### Perf

If you run a site, there's a good chance you can find something you didn't know
by running it through [Google's PageSpeed Insights][12] and [Google's
Mobile-Friendly Test][13]. There's also [Lighthouse][45].

One of my favorite people in the space of site performance is [Ilya
Grigorik][25], so I highly recommend checking out his stuff.

This, as the previous section, is _massive_ overengineering for this pathetic
little site, but then you may just smile a bit wider when you look in the mirror
in the morning ðŸ˜„

### Accessibility

I'm pretty new to this, but it's a good idea to run your sites through something
like [a11y][26], [AChecker][27], or [WAVE][28]. [a11y Project][29] has some
great resources as well.

---

## Historical

More Pablo used to be More Paul, and it's had a lot of different iterations.
None of this applies anymore, but is worth storytelling value, and/or if you
have questions for your own sites.

### Content

My first blog was [this LiveJournal][46] I started freshman year of college. I
can't remember the login details, and don't have access to the email addresses
that they pointed to. It's a shame, there were a few "followers-only" posts (and
a few private ones) so some of it is Just Lost.

In college while learning computers, WordPress was taking off, so I hosted the
original "More Paul" as a WordPress install on a host I can't remember. Internet
Archive [caught a few of the pages][47], though I can't say I miss them much.

I lost that account on the host after my credit card expired and all their
warnings were Spam collected. The experience of the last two blogs might be
why, in part, I really appreciate static sites (and how easy it is to `git
commit && git push` them to the cloud).

## Hosting

After the above and I switched to static sites, I put my files into a
[Linode][48]. This worked a bit S3 (push the diff) except it was more like an
EC2 instance with raw nginx. It was probably the simplest stack I've run.

Two years ago, as containers were blowing up, I thought I'd learn them with this
site. The most ridiculous thing I ever did was host this on Google Cloud (my old
team!) using Kubernetes. I can't say I came out of that _particularly_
proficient with these technologies, but it was a fun experience.

If you're not doing your DNS through Amazon, it's pretty nice to use
[CloudFlare][11], especially for easy SSL. There [might be drawbacks to
this][24], however.

## Styles

I read the [CSS book by the authors][16] way back in 2006, when blue beanies
were a thing and "web standards" was still something of a fight (such was my
perception, anyways, it might have just been great branding by Zeldman and Meyer
and co.). Which is to say, I knew what CSS _looked_ like and `float`
was probably the most advanced property I remembered (that, and that to center
something dynamically, was `margin: 10px auto;`).

So when I was rebuilding the site, I was looking at other sources and more or
less losing my mind. Has science gone too far? What is this [text-rendering][17]
property? [vh][18] as a length descriptor?!?

It was all very humbling. I did some more traditional styling, archived [here][39]
and [here][38]. I got those by applying this basic process:

* Look at the default Ghost template, Casper. Good demonstration/style-test
  [here][20]. They kindly annotated/explained [its CSS file][21].

* [Some text things to keep in mind][22], re: text on blogs.

I found [this guide][19] (part two [here][23]) a pretty great read on these
topics, too.

Frog uses Bootstrap by default; I went with [Foundation][33] since I knew it
better. Now I'm trying to stay off both.

## In Conclusion

Use Squarespace.

   [1]: https://jekyllrb.com/
   [2]: https://github.com/octopress/octopress
   [3]: https://github.com/pablo-meier/Pablog
   [4]: https://github.com/greghendershott/frog
   [5]: https://twitter.com/nrrrdcore/status/459358875213238272
   [6]: http://valleywag.gawker.com/meet-the-married-duo-behind-techs-biggest-new-harassme-1545685104
   [7]: http://racket-lang.org/
   [8]: http://www.greghendershott.com/fear-of-macros/
   [9]: /2013/11/blogging-solutions.html
   [10]: https://ghost.org/
   [11]: https://www.cloudflare.com/ssl/
   [12]: https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights/
   [13]: https://www.google.com/webmasters/tools/mobile-friendly/
   [14]: https://github.com/google/zopfli
   [15]: https://blog.codinghorror.com/zopfli-optimization-literally-free-bandwidth/
   [16]: https://www.amazon.com/Cascading-Style-Sheets-Designing-Web/dp/0321193121
   [17]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/text-rendering
   [18]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/length
   [19]: https://medium.com/@erikdkennedy/7-rules-for-creating-gorgeous-ui-part-1-559d4e805cda#.b1ywaheh4
   [20]: http://demo.ghost.io/style-test/
   [21]: http://demo.ghost.io/assets/css/screen.css?v=325f46f29b
   [22]: http://www.kaikkonendesign.fi/typography/
   [23]: https://medium.com/@erikdkennedy/7-rules-for-creating-gorgeous-ui-part-2-430de537ba96#.ln69vedet
   [24]: http://www.slashgeek.net/2016/05/17/cloudflare-is-ruining-the-internet-for-me/
   [25]: https://www.igvita.com/
   [26]: https://addyosmani.com/a11y/
   [27]: http://achecker.ca/checker/index.php
   [28]: http://wave.webaim.org/
   [29]: http://a11yproject.com/
   [30]: https://www.docker.com/
   [31]: http://kubernetes.io/
   [32]: https://stormpath.com/blog/ultimate-guide-deploying-static-site-aws
   [33]: https://foundation.zurb.com/
   [34]: https://jvns.ca/blog/2017/04/30/using-strict-transport-security/
   [35]: https://nvisium.com/blog/2017/08/10/lambda-edge-cloudfront-custom-headers/
   [36]: https://observatory.mozilla.org/
   [37]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security
   [38]: /2016/06/new-look-new-page.html
   [38]: /2018/01/
   [39]: https://github.com/pablo-meier/Pablog/blob/master/push_site.sh
   [40]: https://github.com/pablo-meier/Pablog/blob/master/Makefile#L26
   [41]: https://github.com/pablo-meier/Pablog/tree/master/tools/img-insert
   [42]: https://github.com/pablo-meier/Pablog/tree/master/tools/img-insert#img-insert
   [43]: https://bestmotherfucking.website/
   [44]: https://morepablo.com/2018/01/minimal-pages-brought-to-you-by-the-letter-f.html
   [45]: https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/
   [46]: https://ilcapitano.livejournal.com/
   [47]: https://web.archive.org/web/20080723191834/http://www.morepaul.com
   [48]: https://www.linode.com/
