# About

I'm living in New York City. For work, I've mostly developed software, having
worked for Adobe on the [Flash Platform][2] from 2010-2012, and for Google
briefly on their [API console][3] from 2012-2013, until I decided to follow
someone, taking me away from the Bay Area. After that I was the second employee
Looksee, which made the [fun, but ill-fated Sup app][4]. I later joined
[Reonomy][5] as a Series B employee in 2015, where I was an engineer for about a
year before getting promoted to a Lead, where I've been managing more. I did
almost the same path at [ClassPass][13] (IC then promoted to manage, about a
year). Now I'm at [Lyft][14]

You can find my paper resume [hosted on GitHub][6]. It's pretty reductive in
order to fit on one page; if you'd like to know more about my Engineering
experience/outlook/ideas, you'll probably do better clicking the
[Engineering][7] page, or finding [blog posts with that tag][8].

Before software, I did a lot more in the Arts, primarily theater, having worked
mostly as an actor and a sound designer, about 10-15 shows as each. I've also
dabbled in modern dance before pursuing other production opportunities, and
directing, which was a bit more rare. Performance is still always on the mind.

This is reflected in my education. I graduated with two degrees: an ScB in
Computer Science and a BA in Music. I made the transition from arts/performance
to engineering at Brown University.

Before that, I grew up in Washington, DC. with a very lovely family.

## FAQ!

#### Is it 'Pablo' or 'Paul'? Which is your <em>real</em> name?

Yes!

Legally, my name is Paul, and that's what most of my English-speaking people
called me in school and my first two jobs. My siblings, cousins, and exes all
mostly call me "Paul."

But my parents and grandparents have called me exclusively Pablo for [as long as
I've been processing language][1], and it's what I've always felt more
comfortable with. I've been using it more with the last two gigs, and most
recent co-workers find calling me "Paul" as alien as I do when I look into a
mirror.

Ultimately, I answer to both, and feel like I am both. People have been
surprisingly emotionally invested in this issue.


#### Give us labels to better put you in a box!

Since you asked, imaginary Pablo.

Like [my dog][9], I'm a mix. Unlike my dog, I broadly know what I'm a mix of:

* My father is second-generation American, prior family from Germany ("Meier!") ðŸ‡ºðŸ‡¸
* My mother is Guatemalan ðŸ‡¬ðŸ‡¹

I've been to Guatemala ~10 times. It's beautiful, you should go! I speak fluent
Spanish, though it's pretty obviously my second language.

I'm a middle child: my brother is two years older than me, my sister four years
younger.

#### What is your [favicon][10]?

It's a [Zerg Drone!][11] They [are adorable][12].

<img src="/img/static/drone.jpg" alt="Zerg drone!" style="margin: 15px auto; max-width=350px;" />

   [1]: http://www.qwantz.com/index.php?comic=2479
   [2]: http://www.adobe.com/flash
   [3]: http://code.google.com/apis/console
   [4]: http://techcrunch.com/2014/08/07/sup-app/
   [5]: https://reonomy.com
   [6]: https://github.com/pablo-meier/resume
   [7]: /Engineering.html
   [8]: /tags/engineering.html
   [9]: https://www.instagram.com/explore/tags/sapogoeswoof/
   [10]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Favicon
   [11]: http://wiki.teamliquid.net/starcraft2/Drone_(Legacy_of_the_Void)
   [12]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Lohi0-zYqQ
   [13]: http://classpass.com
   [14]: https://www.lyft.com/
